भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक


SERVE BANK OF


IN


RBI/2011-12/529


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
Foreign Exchange Department
Central Office
Mumbai - 400 001


A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No.114


May 02, 2012


To


All Category - I Authorised Dealer Banks


Madam / Sir,


Exim Bank's Line of Credit of USD 80 million
to the Government of the Republic of Burundi
Export-Import Bank of India (Exim Bank) has concluded an Agreement dated May
24, 2011 with the Government of the Republic of Burundi, making available to the
latter, a Line of Credit (LOC) of USD 80 million (USD Eighty million) for financing
eligible goods, machinery, equipment and services including consultancy services
from India for the purpose of installation of the Kabu Hydro Electric Project in
Burundi. The goods, machinery, equipment and services including consultancy
services from India for exports under this Agreement are those which are eligible
for export under the Foreign Trade Policy of the Government of India and whose
purchase may be agreed to be financed by the Exim Bank under this Agreement.
Out of the total credit by Exim Bank under this Agreement, the goods and services
including consultancy services of the value of at least 75 per cent of the contract
price shall be supplied by the sellers from India and the remaining 25 per cent
goods and services (other than consultancy services) may be procured by the
sellers for the purpose of Eligible Contract from outside India.


2.
The Credit Agreement under the LOC is effective from April 19, 2012 and
the date of execution of Agreement is May 24, 2011. Under the LOC, the last date
for opening of Letters of Credit and Disbursement will be 48 months from the
scheduled completion date(s) of contract(s) in the case of project exports and 72
months (May 23, 2017) from the execution date of the Credit Agreement in the
case of supply contracts.


3.


Shipments under the LOC will have to be declared on GR / SDF Forms as
per instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time.




2


4.


No agency commission is payable under the above LOC. However, if
required, the exporter may use his own resources or utilize balances in his
Exchange Earners' Foreign Currency Account for payment of commission in free
foreign exchange. Authorised Dealer Category- I (AD Category-l) banks may allow
such remittance after realization of full payment of contract value subject to
compliance with the prevailing instructions for payment of agency commission.


5. AD Category-l banks may bring the contents of this circular to the notice of
their exporter constituents and advise them to obtain full details of the Line of
Credit from the Exim Bank's office at Centre One, Floor 21, World Trade Centre
Complex, Cuffe Parade, Mumbai 400 005 or log on to www.eximbankindia.in.


6.


The directions contained in this circular have been issued under sections
10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999 (42 of
1999) and are without prejudice to permissions / approvals, if any, required under
any other law.


Yours faithfully,


(Rashmi Fauzdar)
Chief General Manager
