 Authorized Officer, State Bank Of ... vs Mathew K.C. on 30 January, 2018 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2018 SUPREME COURT 676, AIR 2018 SC (CIVIL) 1132, (2018) 141 REVDEC 92, (2018) 5 MAH LJ 586, (2018) 2 RECCIVR 1, (2018) 1 NIJ 274, (2018) 4 MPLJ 162, (2018) 1 SCALE 618, (2018) 2 UC 855, (2018) 1 UC 294, (2018) 1 KER LJ 820, (2018) 3 CIVLJ 137, (2018) 2 ANDHLD 132, (2018) 2 PAT LJR 61, (2018) 2 BOM CR 279, (2018) 129 ALL LR 204, (2018) 2 ALL WC 1100, 2018 (3) SCC 85, (2018) 2 JCR 181 (SC), (2018) 1 JLJR 381 

 Author:  Navin Sinha  

 Bench:  Navin Sinha ,  Rohinton Fali Nariman  

                                                                           REPORTABLE

                                      IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                       CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION


                                      CIVIL APPEAL No. 1281 OF 2018
                                    (Arising out of SLP (C) No.24610 of 2015)


                         AUTHORIZED OFFICER, STATE BANK OF
                         TRAVANCORE AND ANOTHER           ..........Appellant(s)

                                                    VERSUS

                         MATHEW K.C.                               ......Respondent(s)



                                                  JUDGMENT
 

                          NAVIN SINHA, J.
 
 
                                Leave granted.
 
 
                           2.   The present appeal assails an interim order dated

                         24.04.2015 passed in a writ petition under  Article 226  of the

                         Constitution, staying further proceedings at the stage of

                         Section 13(4) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
 Signature Not Verified 

 Digitally signed by 
 VISHAL ANAND 
                         Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
 Date: 2018.01.30 
 15:38:03 IST 
 Reason: 

                         2002 (hereinafter referred as the ‘ SARFAESI Act ’), on deposit of


                                                         1 
Rs.3,50,000/-within two weeks. An appeal against the same

has also been dismissed by the Division Bench observing that

counter affidavit having been filed, it would be open for the

Appellant Bank to seek clarification/modification/variation of

the interim order.
 
 

  3.   Shri H.P. Raval, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

Appellants, submits that the loan account of the Respondent

was declared a Non-Performing Asset (NPA) on 28.12.2014.

The outstanding dues of the Respondent on the date of the

institution of the writ petition was Rs.41,82,560/-. Despite

repeated notices, the Respondent failed and neglected to pay

the dues. Statutory notice under  Section 13(2)  of the

SARFAESI Act was issued to the Respondent on 21.01.2015.

The objections under  Section 13(3A)  were considered, and

rejection was communicated by the Appellant on 31.3.2015.

Possession notice was then issued under  Section 13(4)  of the

Act read with Rule 8 of The Security Interest (Enforcement)




                               2 
Rules, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Rules’) on

21.04.2015.
 
 

    4.    The SARFAESI Act  is a complete code by itself, providing

for expeditious recovery of dues arising out of loans granted by

financial institutions, the remedy of appeal by the aggrieved

under  Section 17  before the Debt Recovery Tribunal, followed

by a right to appeal before the Appellate Tribunal under

 Section 18 . The High Court ought not to have entertained the

writ petition in view of the adequate alternate statutory

remedies available to the Respondent. The interim order was

passed on the very first date, without an opportunity to the

Appellant to file a reply. Reliance was placed on  United Bank

of India vs. Satyawati Tandon and others , 2010 ( 8) SCC

110, and General Manager, Sri Siddeshwara Cooperative

Bank Limited and another vs. Ikbal and others , 2013 (10)

SCC 83. The writ petition ought to have been dismissed at the

threshold on the ground of maintainability.       The Division

Bench erred in declining to interfere with the same.  



                                3 
  5.   Shri Roy Abraham, learned Counsel for the Respondent,

submitted that it was desirous to repay the loan, and merely

sought regularisation of the loan account.      The inability to

service the loan was genuine, occasioned due to market

fluctuations causing huge loss in business, beyond the control

of the Respondent.    The failure of the Bank to consider the

request for regularisation of the loan account, the absence of a

right to appeal under  Section 17  against the order passed

under  Section 13(3A) , the Respondent was left with no option

but to prefer the writ application as the Respondent genuinely

desired to discharge the loans. The collateral security offered

included agricultural lands also, which had to be excluded

under  Section 31  of the SARFAESI Act. There had been

violation of the principles of natural justice. A large number of

similar writ applications are pending before the High Court

preferred by the concerned borrowers, but the Bank has

singled out the present Respondent alone for a challenge.




                                 4 
   6.   We have considered the submissions on behalf of the

parties. Normally this Court in exercise of jurisdiction under

 Article 136  of the Constitution is loathe to interfere with an

interim order passed in a pending proceeding before the High

Court, except in special circumstances, to prevent manifest

injustice or abuse of the process of the court. In the present

case, the facts are not in dispute.        The discretionary

jurisdiction under  Article 226  is not absolute but has to be

exercised judiciously in the given facts of a case and in

accordance with law. The normal rule is that a writ petition

under  Article 226  of the Constitution ought not to be

entertained if alternate statutory remedies are available,

except in cases falling within the well defined exceptions as

observed in  Commissioner of Income Tax and Others vs.

Chhabil Dass Agarwal , 2014 (1) SCC 603, as follows: 

            “15. Thus, while it can be said that this Court
          has recognised some exceptions to the rule of
          alternative remedy i.e. where the statutory
          authority has not acted in accordance with the
          provisions of the enactment in question, or in
          defiance of the fundamental principles of
          judicial procedure, or has resorted to invoke
          the provisions which are repealed, or when an


                               5 
           order has been passed in total violation of the
           principles of natural justice, the proposition
            laid down in  Thansingh Nathmal case,
           Titaghur Paper Mills case and other similar
           judgments that the High Court will not
           entertain a petition under  Article 226  of the
           Constitution if an effective alternative remedy
           is available to the aggrieved person or the
           statute under which the action complained of
           has been taken itself contains a mechanism for
           redressal of grievance still holds the field.
           Therefore, when a statutory forum is created
           by law for redressal of grievances, a writ
           petition should not be entertained ignoring the
           statutory dispensation.”


  7.     The pleadings in the writ petition are very bald and

contain no statement that the grievances fell within any of the

well   defined exceptions.   The   allegation   for   violation   of

principles of natural justice is rhetorical, without any details

and the prejudice caused thereby. It harps only on a desire

for regularisation of the loan account, even while the

Respondent acknowledges its own inability to service the loan

account for reasons attributable to it alone. The writ petition

was filed in undue haste in March 2015 immediately after

disposal of objections under  Section 13(3A) .      The legislative

scheme, in order to expedite the recovery proceedings, does


                                6 
not envisage grievance redressal procedure at this stage, by

virtue of the explanation added to  Section 17  of the Act, by

Amendment Act 30 of 2004, as follows :-
 
           “Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it
          is hereby declared that the communication of
          the reasons to the borrower by the secured
          creditor   for  not    having    accepted    his
          representation or objection or the likely action
          of the secured creditor at the stage of
          communication of reasons to the borrower
          shall not entitle the person (including the
          borrower) to make an application to the Debts
          Recovery Tribunal under this sub-section.”



  8.   The  Section 13(4)  notice along with possession notice

under Rule 8 was issued on 21.04.2015. The remedy under

 Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act was now available to the

Respondent if aggrieved.      These developments were not

brought on record or placed before the Court when the

impugned interim order came to be passed on 24.04.2015.

The writ petition was clearly not instituted bonafide, but

patently to stall further action for recovery.    There is no

pleading why the remedy available under  Section 17  of the Act

before the Debt Recovery Tribunal was not efficacious and the


                               7 
compelling reasons for by-passing the same. Unfortunately,

the High Court also did not dwell upon the same or record any

special reasons for grant of interim relief by direction to

deposit.
 
 


  9.    The statement of objects and reasons of the  SARFAESI

Act  states that the banking and financial sector in the country

was felt not to have a level playing field in comparison to other

participants in the financial markets in the world. The

financial institutions in India did not have the power to take

possession of securities and sell them. The existing legal

framework relating to commercial transactions had not kept

pace with changing commercial practices and financial sector

reforms resulting in tardy recovery of defaulting loans and

mounting non-performing assets of banks and financial

institutions. The Narasimhan Committee I and II as also the

Andhyarujina      Committee     constituted   by   the    Central

Government Act had suggested enactment of new legislation

for   securitisation   and   empowering   banks    and   financial


                                 8 
institutions to take possession of securities and sell them

without court intervention which would enable them to realise

long term assets, manage problems of liquidity, asset liability

mismatches and improve recovery. The proceedings under the

Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,

1993, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the  DRT Act ’) with passage of

time, had become synonymous with those before regular

courts affecting expeditious adjudication.   All these aspects

have not been kept in mind and considered before passing the

impugned order.
 
 

   10.   Even prior to the  SARFAESI Act , considering the

alternate remedy available under the  DRT Act  it was held in

 Punjab National Bank vs. O.C. Krishnan and others ,

(2001) 6 SCC 569, that :- 
 
           “6.  The Act  has been enacted with a view to
          provide a special procedure for recovery of
          debts due to the banks and the financial
          institutions. There is a hierarchy of appeal
          provided in the Act, namely, filing of an appeal
          under  Section 20  and this fast-track procedure
          cannot be allowed to be derailed either by
          taking recourse to proceedings under  Articles

                                9 
          226  and  227  of the Constitution or by filing a
          civil suit, which is expressly barred. Even
          though a provision under an Act cannot
          expressly oust the jurisdiction of the court
          under  Articles 226  and  227  of the Constitution,
          nevertheless, when there is an alternative
          remedy available, judicial prudence demands
          that the Court refrains from exercising its
          jurisdiction under the said constitutional
          provisions. This was a case where the High
          Court should not have entertained the petition
          under  Article 227  of the Constitution and
          should have directed the respondent to take
          recourse to the appeal mechanism provided by
          the Act.”



  11.    In  Satyawati Tandon  (supra), the High Court had

restrained further proceedings under  Section 13(4)  of the Act.

Upon a detailed consideration of the statutory scheme under

the  SARFAESI Act , the availability of remedy to the aggrieved

under  Section 17  before the Tribunal and the appellate remedy

under  Section 18  before the Appellate Tribunal, the object and

purpose of the legislation, it was observed that a writ petition

ought not to be entertained in view of the alternate statutory

remedy available holding :- 
 
 
            “43. Unfortunately, the High Court overlooked
          the settled law that the High Court will


                                10 
ordinarily not entertain a petition under  Article
226  of the Constitution if an effective remedy
is available to the aggrieved person and that
this rule applies with greater rigour in matters
involving recovery of taxes, cess, fees, other
types of public money and the dues of banks
and other financial institutions. In our view,
while dealing with the petitions involving
challenge to the action taken for recovery of
the public dues, etc. the High Court must keep
in mind that the legislations enacted by
Parliament and State Legislatures for recovery
of such dues are a code unto themselves
inasmuch      as   they    not    only   contain
comprehensive procedure for recovery of the
dues but also envisage constitution of
quasi-judicial bodies for redressal of the
grievance of any aggrieved person. Therefore,
in all such cases, the High Court must insist
that before availing remedy under  Article 226 
of the Constitution, a person must exhaust the
remedies available under the relevant statute.
                           ***
  55. It is a matter of serious concern that
despite repeated pronouncement of this Court,
the High Courts continue to ignore the
availability of statutory remedies under the
DRT Act and the SARFAESI Act and exercise
jurisdiction under  Article 226  for passing
orders which have serious adverse impact on
the right of banks and other financial
institutions to recover their dues. We hope and
trust that in future the High Courts will
exercise their discretion in such matters with
greater caution, care and circumspection.”




                     11 
  12.    In  Union Bank of India and another vs. Panchanan

Subudhi , 2010 (15) SCC 552, further proceedings under

 Section 13(4)  were stayed in the writ jurisdiction subject to

deposit of Rs.10,00,000/- leading this Court to observe as

follows : 
 
 
              “7. In our view, the approach adopted by the
            High Court was clearly erroneous. When the
            respondent failed to abide by the terms of
            one-time settlement, there was no justification
            for the High Court to entertain the writ petition
            and that too by ignoring the fact that a
            statutory alternative remedy was available to
            the respondent under  Section 17  of the Act.”



   13.   The same view was reiterated in  Kanaiyalal Lalchand

Sachdev and others vs. State of Maharashtra and others ,

2011 (2) SCC 782 observing: 
 
 
               “23. In our opinion, therefore, the High Court
            rightly dismissed the petition on the ground
            that an efficacious remedy was available to the
            appellants under  Section 17  of the Act. It is
            well settled that ordinarily relief under Articles
            226/227 of the Constitution of India is not
            available if an efficacious alternative remedy is
            available to any aggrieved person. (See
             Sadhana Lodh v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. ; 
 


                                  12 
            Surya Dev Rai v. Ram Chander Rai and SBI v.
             Allied Chemical Laboratories.)”


  14.     In  Ikbal  (supra), it was observed that the action of the

Bank under  Section 13(4)  of the ‘ SARFAESI Act ’ available to

challenge by the aggrieved under  Section 17  was an efficacious

remedy and the institution directly under  Article 226  was not

sustainable,     relying   upon    Satyawati   Tandon      (Supra),

observing :  
 
 
             “27. No doubt an alternative remedy is not an
           absolute bar to the exercise of extraordinary
           jurisdiction under  Article 226  but by now it is
           well settled that where a statute provides
           efficacious and adequate remedy, the High
           Court will do well in not entertaining a petition
           under       Article    226.      On     misplaced
           considerations, statutory procedures cannot be
           allowed to be circumvented.
             ***


          28…….In our view, there was no justification
          whatsoever for the learned Single Judge to
          allow the borrower to bypass the efficacious
          remedy provided to him under  Section 17  and
          invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction in his
          favour when he had disentitled himself for
          such relief by his conduct. The Single Judge
          was clearly in error in invoking his
          extraordinary jurisdiction under  Article 226  in
          light of the peculiar facts indicated above. The

                                   13 
           Division Bench also erred in affirming the
           erroneous order of the Single Judge.”



  15.   A similar view was taken in Punjab National Bank and

another vs. Imperial Gift House and others, (2013) 14 SCC

622, observing:-
 
 
             “3. Upon receipt of notice, the respondents filed
           representation under  Section 13 (3- A) of the
           Act , which was rejected. Thereafter, before any
           further action could be taken under  Section
           13(4)  of the Act by the Bank, the writ petition
           was filed before the High Court.
 
            4. In our view, the High Court was not justified
           in entertaining the writ petition against the
           notice issued under  Section 13(2)  of the Act
           and quashing the proceedings initiated by the
           Bank.”


   16.   It is the solemn duty of the Court to apply the correct law

without waiting for an objection to be raised by a party,

especially when the law stands well settled. Any departure, if

permissible, has to be for reasons discussed, of the case falling

under a defined exception, duly discussed after noticing the

relevant law. In financial matters grant of ex-parte interim

orders can have a deleterious effect and it is not sufficient to


                                14 
say that the aggrieved has the remedy to move for vacating the

interim order. Loans by financial institutions are granted from

public money generated at the tax payers expense. Such loan

does not become the property of the person taking the loan,

but retains its character of public money given in a fiduciary

capacity as entrustment by the public. Timely repayment also

ensures liquidity to facilitate loan to another in need, by

circulation of the money and cannot be permitted to be

blocked by frivolous litigation by those who can afford the

luxury of the same.    The caution required, as expressed in

 Satyawati Tandon  (supra), has also not been kept in mind

before passing the impugned interim order:- 


            “46. It must be remembered that stay of an
          action initiated by the State and/or its
          agencies/instrumentalities for recovery of
          taxes, cess, fees, etc. seriously impedes
          execution of projects of public importance and
          disables     them   from     discharging   their
          constitutional and legal obligations towards the
          citizens. In cases relating to recovery of the
          dues of banks, financial institutions and
          secured creditors, stay granted by the High
          Court would have serious adverse impact on
          the       financial    health       of     such
          bodies/institutions, which (sic will) ultimately
          prove detrimental to the economy of the nation.
 
                               15 
              Therefore, the High Court should be extremely
          careful and circumspect in exercising its
          discretion to grant stay in such matters. Of
          course, if the petitioner is able to show that its
          case falls within any of the exceptions carved
          out in  Baburam Prakash Chandra Maheshwari
          v. Antarim Zila Parishad ,  Whirlpool Corpn. v.
          Registrar of Trade Marks  and  Harbanslal
          Sahnia v. Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd.  and some other
          judgments, then the High Court may, after
          considering all the relevant parameters and
          public interest, pass an appropriate interim
          order.”   


  17.   The writ petition ought not to have been entertained and

the interim order granted for the mere asking without

assigning special reasons, and that too without even granting

opportunity to the Appellant to contest the maintainability of

the writ petition and failure to notice the subsequent

developments in the interregnum. The opinion of the Division

Bench that the counter affidavit having subsequently been

filed, stay/modification could be sought of the interim order

cannot be considered sufficient justification to have declined

interference.
 
 


                                16 
   18.   We cannot help but disapprove the approach of the High

Court for reasons already noticed in  Dwarikesh Sugar

Industries Ltd. vs. Prem Heavy Engineering Works (P) Ltd.

and Another , 1997 (6) SCC 450, observing :- 
 
 
            “32. When a position, in law, is well settled as
          a result of judicial pronouncement of this
          Court, it would amount to judicial impropriety
          to say the least, for the subordinate courts
          including the High Courts to ignore the settled
          decisions and then to pass a judicial order
          which is clearly contrary to the settled legal
          position. Such judicial adventurism cannot be
          permitted and we strongly deprecate the
          tendency of the subordinate courts in not
          applying the settled principles and in passing
          whimsical orders which necessarily has the
          effect of granting wrongful and unwarranted
          relief to one of the parties. It is time that this
          tendency stops.”



  19.   The impugned orders are therefore contrary to the law

 laid down by  this Court under  Article 141  of the Constitution

and unsustainable. They are therefore set aside and the

appeal is allowed.
 
 


                                17 
  20.   All   questions   of   law    and    fact   remain   open   for

consideration in any application by the aggrieved before the

statutory forum under the  SARFAESI Act .
 
 


                                             ……………………………….J.
                                        (Rohinton Fali Nariman)



                                          …….………………………..J.
                                                (Navin Sinha)
New Delhi,
January 30, 2018




                                    18 
 