 Bajarang Shyamsunder Agarwal vs Central Bank Of India on 11 September, 2019 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2019 SUPREME COURT 5017, 2019 (9) SCC 94, AIRONLINE 2019 SC 1063, 2020 (1) ABR 297, (2019) 12 SCALE 230, (2019) 3 ALLCRIR 2729, (2019) 3 CRILR(RAJ) 1029, (2019) 3 CURCC 497, (2019) 4 BANKCAS 1, (2019) 4 BOMCR(CRI) 732, (2019) 4 KER LT 143, 2019 CRILR(SC MAH GUJ) 1029, (2020) 1 ANDHLD 13, (2020) 1 CIVLJ 176, AIR 2020 SC (CIV) 468 

 Author:  N.V. Ramana  

 Bench:  Indira Banerjee ,  Mohan M. Shantanagoudar ,  N.V. Ramana  

                                                                           REPORTABLE


                                IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                               CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                                CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1371 OF 2019
                              (ARISING OUT OF SLP (CRL.) NO. 9590/2015)

        BAJARANG SHYAMSUNDER                                        …APPELLANT
        AGARWAL
                                 VERSUS
        CENTRAL BANK OF INDIA &amp; ANR.                              …RESPONDENTS

                                             JUDGMENT
          N.V. RAMANA, J.
 
 1.              Leave granted.
  2.              The present appeal arises out of the impugned order dated

                31.12.2014 in Case No. 42/SA/2012 of the Chief Metropolitan

                Magistrate, Esplanade, Mumbai rejecting the application of the

                intervenor who is the appellant­tenant herein seeking to stay the

                execution of order passed under  Section 14  of The Securitization

                and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of

                Security Interest Act, 2002 [hereinafter referred to as       the

                ‘ SARFAESI Act ’]        for taking possession of the property in

                question.
  3.              The property in question is a residential flat admeasuring about
      Signature Not Verified 

      Digitally signed by 


                1020 sq. ft., situated in Andheri (West), Mumbai (hereinafter
     SUSHMA KUMARI
     BAJAJ
     Date: 2019.09.12
     11:30:09 IST
     Reason:
 
 


                  referred to as the “secured asset”). The secured asset was


                                                  1 
     mortgaged by respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord with the

     respondent no. 1­bank in equitable mortgage, by depositing title

     deeds on 20.05.2000, with an intention to secure the credit

     facility. When the respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord failed to

     make the due repayment of the said credit facilities, the

     respondent no.1­bank classified the debt as a “Non­Performing

     Asset (NPA)”. Thereafter, on 30.04.2011 a statutory Demand

     Notice under  Section 13 (2)  of the SARFAESI Act was issued to

     respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord demanding payment of

     Rs.10,72,10,106.73 (Rupees Ten Crores Seventy­Two Lacs Ten

     Thousand One Hundred Six and Seventy Three Paisa Only) which

     was due as on 30.04.2011.
  4.   When      the   respondent   no.2­borrower,   failed   to   repay   the

     outstanding loan amount, the respondent no. 1­bank made an

     application under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act seeking

     directions to take physical possession of the secured asset. This

     application was allowed by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

     Esplanade, Mumbai by his order dated 09.03.2012. In this order,

     the Magistrate directed the Assistant Registrar to take possession

     of the secured asset and handover the same to the respondent no.

     1­bank.
 
 
                                       2 
  5.   For the brevity of discussion, it may be pointed out that the

     appellant, who claims to be the tenant, asserts that the secured

     asset was let out to him by respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord in

     January, 2000 and he has been paying rent since then.

     Admittedly, the tenancy was based on an oral agreement. The

     appellant­tenant received a legal notice dated 25.07.2012, from

     respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord directing the appellant­

     tenant to vacate the premises within 15 days. The appellant­

     tenant preferred a suit being R.A.D Suit No. 652 of 2012 before

     the Court of Small Causes at Mumbai against the respondent no.

     2­borrower/landlord. On 18.09.2012, the Small Causes Court

     allowed the application for interim injunction of the appellant­

     tenant   filed   in   the   above   suit   and   respondent   no.   2­

     borrower/landlord was restrained from disturbing the possession

     of the appellant­tenant.
   6.   Meanwhile, the High Court of Bombay, in Criminal Public Interest

     Litigation No. 24 of 2011, held that a Magistrate has the power to

     pass an order of eviction without giving an opportunity of hearing

     to the tenant under SARFAESI proceedings. An appeal against the

     aforesaid order along with a batch of other appeals was heard by

     this Court in  Harshad Govardhan Sondagar v. International

                                          3 
     Assets Reconstruction Co. Ltd. and Ors , (2014) 6 SCC 1

     [hereinafter referred to as ‘Harshad Govardhan Case’]. This Court

     directed the Magistrate to decide the applications after giving the

     tenants an opportunity of hearing. 
   7.   The appellant­tenant preferred an application in Case No.

     42/SA/2012 before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Esplanade,

     Mumbai. By the impugned order dated 31.12.2014, the Chief

     Metropolitan    Magistrate   after   hearing   the    appellant­tenant,

     rejected the application holding that the appellant­tenant being a

     tenant without any registered instrument is not entitled for the

     possession of the secured asset for more than one year from the

     date   of   execution   of   unregistered   tenancy     agreement   in

     accordance with the law  laid down in   Harshad Govardhan  Case

     (supra). 
  8.   Aggrieved by the same, appellant­tenant filed this appeal by way

     of Special Leave.
  9.   The learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant­tenant

     submitted that­
            a.   The Appellant was a protected tenant under the

                     Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999  [hereinafter

                    referred to as the “ Rent Act ”], and was in occupation

                    of the tenanted premises since October, 2005.

                                       4 
            B.   Even though there was no registered lease deed, the

                 factum of tenancy can be demonstrated by multiple

                 rent receipts.
              c.   The Small Causes Court made a prima facie

                 determination of rights in his favour (refer to order in

                 R.A.D. Suit No. 652 of 2012).
                d.   the appellant­tenant’s case is covered by the ruling of

                 this Court in  Harshad Govardhan  Case ( supra),

                 and Vishal N. Kalsaria v. Bank of India and Ors. ,

                 (2016) 3 SCC 762 [hereinafter referred to as ‘Vishal

                 N. Kalsaria Case’].  
  10. On the contrary, the counsel on behalf of respondent no.1­bank

    submits that
           a.    The appellant­tenant and the respondent no. 2­

                 borrower/landlord have devised this litigation to

                 commit a large­scale fraud on the bank. The

                 appellant is not a tenant and has been brought into

                 the     picture     by     the      respondent    no.2­

                 borrower/landlord to misuse the process of law and

                 is not entitled for any equitable relief.
 
             b.    At the time of creation of the mortgage, the bank

                 officers were given to understand that the family of


                                      5 
                 the mortgager was residing in the secured asset.

                   Even    after    multiple     inquiries,    and    even     after

                 initiating proceedings under  Section 14  of the

                 SARFAESI        Act,   the    bank      officers   were    never

                 intimated about the existing tenancy.
 
             c.   The respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord, had given a

                 non­encumbrance certificate to the bank at the time

                 of creation of the mortgage.
 
             d.   In 2016, the respondent no. 1­bank made enquiries

                 regarding the status of the secured asset from the

                 Housing Society which had built the property and is

                 still maintaining the same. The Society, vide letter

                 dated 12.07.2016, had confirmed that the secured

                 asset   is   occupied        by   the   respondent        no.   2­

                 borrower/landlord and there were no third­party

                 rights created over the same.
    11. Since the learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant has

    extensively relied on the judgment of this Court passed in

     Harshad Govardhan  Case ( supra) and Vishal N. Kalsaria 

    Case (supra) in support of the proposition that a tenant is

    protected from any ejectment proceedings under the SARFAESI


                                         6 
    Act, we have to examine if the law declared by these rulings

    accurately reflects the legal position and if these rulings applies to

    the facts of the present case.  
  12. Before we proceed further, the circumstances which led to the

    enactment of the  SARFAESI Act  deserve close scrutiny.              The

    SARFAESI Act  was enacted in response to a scenario where slow­

    paced recovery and staggering amounts of non­performing assets

    were looming over the banks. In order to overcome the practical

    reality, and keep in pace with the changing commercial world,

    Narasimham Committee I and II and the Andhyarujina Committee

    were constituted by the Central Government to provide solutions

    for the issues plaguing the banking system of the country. The

    present Act is a culmination of the suggestions made by the

    aforesaid committees intended to enable the bank to resolve the

    issue of liquidity and aim for the reduction in the number of non­

    performing assets. The Preamble to the Act emphasises upon the

    efficient and expeditious recovery of bad debts.        This is also

    evident from the scheme of the Act.
 
 13.  Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act provides for the enforcement of

    security interest. This is a self­executory mechanism for the

    banks. Once the process of realizing the secured interest takes


                                      7 
place,   the   secured    creditor       acts   as   trustee   having    de­

jure/symbolic possession of the property and is required by law to

realize it strictly in accordance with the provisions of  Section 13 ,

 14  and  15  of the SARFAESI Act. Crucially, sub­Section (2) of

 Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act envisages a notice, which acts as

the trigger point for initiation of the recovery process under the

 SARFAESI Act . In the aforesaid notice, the secured creditor is

required to disclose information on the amount payable by the

borrower and the secured interest intended to be enforced by the

secured creditor in the event of non­payment of the secured debt.

If the borrower fails to discharge the liability, the secured creditor

has four options including taking possession of the secured

assets of the borrower ( Section 13(4)  of the SARFAESI Act).

Critically for this case, once a notice is served on the borrower, he

cannot further enter into any contract to create any encumbrance

on the property ( Section 13(13)  of the SARFAESI Act).                   This

extinguishes the right of the mortgagor to lease the property

under Section 65­ A of the Transfer of Property Act  [hereinafter

referred to as the ‘ T.P. Act ’].
 
 


                                      8 
  14.  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act provides for the procedural

    mechanism for taking possession of property and documents with

    respect to the secured assets, from the borrower.
  15.  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act, dealing with the Right to Appeal

    has been amended in the year 2016 1. However, we are only

    concerned with the earlier law which reads as under ­
              17. Right to appeal.— (1) Any person
            (including borrower) aggrieved by any of the
            measures referred to in sub­section (4) of
             Section 13  taken by the secured creditor or his
            authorised officer under this Chapter, may
            make an application along with such fee, as
            may be prescribed, to the Debts Recovery
            Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter within
            forty­five days from the date on which such
            measures had been taken:
                        Provided that different fees may be
            prescribed for making the application by the
            borrower and the person other than the
            borrower.
              ……

                (2) The Debts Recovery Tribunal shall consider
                whether any of the measures referred to in sub­
                section (4) of  Section 13  taken by the secured
                creditor for enforcement of security are in
                accordance with the provisions of this Act
                and the Rules made thereunder.
 
                 (3) If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal, after
                examining the facts and circumstances of the
                case and evidence produced by the parties,
                comes to the conclusion that any of the
                measures referred to in sub­section (4) of
                 Section 13 , taken by the secured creditor are
    1 The Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous
    Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016 (44 of 2016).
 
                                              9 
 not in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and the Rules made thereunder, and
require restoration of the management of the
business to the borrower or restoration of
possession of the secured assets to the
borrower, it may by order, declare the
recourse to any one or more measures
referred to in sub­section (4) of  Section 13 
taken by the secured creditors as invalid
and restore the possession of the secured
assets to the borrower or restore the
management of the business to the
borrower, as the case may be, and pass such
order as it may consider appropriate and
necessary in relation to any of the recourse
taken by the secured creditor under sub­section
(4) of  Section 13 .
 
 (4) If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal declares the
recourse taken by a secured creditor under sub­
section (4) of  section 13 , is in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the secured creditor shall be entitled to
take recourse to one or more of the measures
specified under sub­section (4) of  section 13  to
recover his secured debt.
 
 (5) Any application made under sub­section (1)
shall be dealt with by the Debts Recovery
Tribunal as expeditiously as possible and
disposed of within sixty days from the date of
such application:
 
     Provided that the Debts Recovery Tribunal
may, from time to time, extend the said period
for reasons to be recorded in writing, so,
however, that the total period of pendency of the
application with the Debts Recovery Tribunal,
shall not exceed four months from the date of

                       10 
               making of such application made under sub­
               section (1).
 
                (6) ………..
 
             (7) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the
            Debts Recovery Tribunal shall, as far as may be,
            dispose of the application in accordance with
            the provisions of the  Recovery of Debts Due to
            Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993  (51
            of 1993) and the rules made thereunder.
                                                  (emphasis supplied)
  16.  Section 17  provides for an invaluable right of appeal to any

    person including the borrower to approach the Debt Recovery

    Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the “DRT”).          In  Harshad

    Govardhan  Case (supra) this Court held that the right of appeal

    is available to the tenant claiming under a borrower, however the

    right of re­possession does not exist with the tenant.   However, in

     Kanaiyalal        Lalchand    Sachdev     and   Ors.   vs.   State   of

    Maharashtra and Ors. , (2011) 2 SCC 782, this Court held that

    the DRT can, not only set aside the action of the secured creditor,

    but even restore the status quo ante. We do not intend to express

    any view on this issue since it is not relevant for the disposal of

    this appeal.      We also note that Parliament has stepped in and

    amended  Section 17  by the Enforcement of Security Interest and

    Recovery     of    Debts     Laws   and   Miscellaneous      Provisions

    (Amendment) Act, 2016 (44 of 2016).         Under the amendment,
                                         11 
     possession can be restored to the “borrower or such other

     aggrieved person”. 
  17.  Section 35  of the SARFAESI Act provides an overriding effect over

     “anything inconsistent contained in any other law”, in the

     following manner­

               “35. The provisions of this Act to override
               other laws.­ The provisions of this Act shall
               have    effect,   notwithstanding     anything
               inconsistent therewith contained in any other
               law for the time being in force or any
               instrument having effect by virtue of any such
               law.”

      Section 35  is critical to this case and we will examine the

     conflicting views on  Section 35 .
 
 
   18. The interplay between the  SARFAESI Act  and the right of the

     tenant was first examined by this Court in  Harshad Govardhan 

     Case (supra). It may be noted that the present appellant was a

     party to the aforesaid proceedings.     This Court was confronted

     with the question as to whether the provisions of the  SARFAESI

     Act  affect the right of a lessee to remain in possession of the

     secured asset during the period of the lease. After noticing the

     scheme of the Act, this Court held that if the lawful possession of

     the secured asset is not with the borrower, but with a lessee


                                         12 
     under a valid lease, the secured creditor cannot take possession

     of the secured asset until the lawful possession of the lessee gets

     determined and the lease will not get determined if the secured

     creditor chooses to take any of the measures specified in  Section

     13  of the SARFAESI Act. Accordingly, this Court concluded that

     the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate /District Magistrate can pass

     an order for delivery of possession of secured asset in favour of

     secured creditor only when he finds that the lease has been

     determined in accordance with  Section 111  of the T.P. Act. 
   19. The  Court further held  that if the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate /

     District Magistrate is satisfied that a valid lease is created before

     the mortgage and the lease has not been determined in

     accordance with  Section 111  of the T.P. Act, then he cannot pass

     an order for delivery of possession of the secured asset to the

     secured creditor. In case, he comes to the conclusion that there

     is no valid lease either before the creation of mortgage or after

     the creation of the mortgage satisfying the requirements of

     Section 65­ A of the T.P. Act  or even though there is a valid lease

     the same stands determined in accordance with  Section 111  of

     the T.P. Act, he can pass an order for delivery of possession of the

     secured asset to the secured creditor. 
 
 
                                       13 
  20. This Court also recognised the inconsistency between  Section

    13(13)  of the SARFAESI Act and Section 65­ A of the Transfer of

    Property Act .    While  Section 13(13)  of SARFAESI prohibits a

    borrower from leasing out any of the secured assets after receipt

    of a notice under  Section 13(2)  without the prior written consent

    of the secured creditor, Section 65­ A of the T.P. Act  enables the

    borrower/mortgagor to lease out the property. This inconsistency

    was resolved by holding that the  SARFAESI Act  will override the

    provisions of the  T.P. Act .
   21. Before concluding, the Court in  Harshad Govardhan  Case

    (supra), distinguished the implications of a registered and an

    unregistered instrument/oral agreement, in the following manner: 
               36. We may now consider the contention of the
             respondents that some of the appellants have not
             produced any document to prove that they are
             bona fide lessees of the secured assets. We find
             that in the cases before us, the appellants have
             relied on the written instruments or rent receipts
             issued by the landlord to the tenant.  Section 107 
             of the Transfer of Property Act provides that a
             lease of immovable property from year to year, or
             for any term exceeding one year or reserving a
             yearly rent, can be made “only by a registered
             instrument” and all other leases of immovable
             property may be made either by a registered
             instrument or by oral agreement accompanied by
             delivery of possession. Hence, if any of the
             appellants claim that they are entitled to
             possession of a secured asset for any term
             exceeding one year from the date of the lease
             made in his favour, he has to produce proof of
                                    14 
             execution of a registered instrument in his
             favour by the lessor. Where he does not
             produce proof of execution of a registered
             instrument in his favour and instead relies on
             an unregistered instrument or oral agreement
             accompanied by delivery of possession, the
             Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the District
             Magistrate, as the case may be, will have to
             come to the conclusion that he is not entitled
             to the possession of the secured asset for more
             than a year from the date of the instrument or
             from the date of delivery of possession in his
             favour by the landlord.
 
                                             (emphasis supplied)


   22. The second case which dealt with the issue of tenants’ rights

    under the    SARFAESI Act  is  Vishal N. Kalsaria  Case (supra).

    This Court was concerned with the question ­ Whether a

    “protected tenant” under the  Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999 

    can be treated as a lessee and whether the provisions of the

    SARFEASI Act, will override the provisions of the  Rent Act ? 
  23. After examining the legal and constitutional position, the Court

    held that while the  SARFAESI Act  has a laudable objective of

    providing a smooth and efficient recovery procedure, it cannot

    override the objective of Rent Acts to control the rate of rent and

    provide protection to tenants against arbitrary and unreasonable

    evictions. To resolve this conflict, this Court held that­

                                      15 
         a) The provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  cannot be used to

         override the provisions of the  Rent Act . The landlord cannot

         be permitted to do indirectly what he has been barred from

         doing under the  Rent Act .
 
        b) While a yearly tenancy requires to be registered, oral

         tenancy can still be proved by showing that the tenant has

         been in occupation of the premises before the Magistrate

         under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act.
 
        c) The non­registration of the tenancy deed cannot be used

         against the tenant. For leasehold rights being created after

         the property has been mortgaged to the bank, the consent of

         the creditor needs to be taken.
 
        d) Even though  Section 35  of the SARFAESI Act has a non

         obstante clause, it will not override the statutory rights of

         the tenants under the  Rent Control Act . The non obstante

         clause under  Section 35  of the SARFAESI Act only applies to

         laws operating in the same field.
    24. While we agree with the principle laid out in  Vishal N. Kalsaria 

    Case (supra) that the tenancy rights under the  Rent Act  need to

    be respected in appropriate cases, however, we believe that the

    holding with respect to the restricted application of the non


                                      16 
     obstante clause under  section 35  of SARFAESI Act, to only apply

     to the laws operating in the same field is too narrow and such a

     proposition does not follow from the ruling of this Court in

      Harshad Govardhan  Case (supra).  
  25. In our view, the objective of  SARFAESI Act , coupled with the T.P.

     Act and the Rent Act are required to be reconciled herein in the

     following manner:
 
        a) If a valid tenancy under law is in existence even prior to the

          creation of the mortgage, the tenant’s possession cannot be

          disturbed by the secured creditor by taking possession of the

          property. The lease has to be determined in accordance with

           Section 111  of the TP Act for determination of leases. As the

          existence of a prior existing lease inevitably affects the risk

          undertaken by the bank while providing the loan, it is

          expected of Banks/Creditors to have conducted a standard

          due diligence in this regard. Where the bank has proceeded

          to accept such a property as mortgage, it will be presumed

          that it has consented to the risk that comes as a

          consequence of the existing tenancy.     In such a situation,

          the rights of a rightful tenant cannot be compromised under

          the  SARFAESI Act  proceedings.
 

                                      17 
       b) If a tenancy under law comes into existence after the

         creation of a mortgage, but prior to the issuance of notice

         under  Section 13(2)  of the SARFAESI Act, it has to satisfy

         the conditions of Section 65­ A of the T.P. Act .
 
       c) In any case, if any of the tenants claim that he is entitled to

         possession of a secured asset for a term of more than a year,

         it has to be supported by the execution of a registered

         instrument. In the absence of a registered instrument, if the

         tenant relies on an unregistered instrument or an oral

         agreement accompanied by delivery of possession, the

         tenant is not entitled to possession of the secured asset for

         more than the period prescribed under  Section 107  of the

         T.P. Act.
  26. In the present case, the bona fides of the tenant is highly

    doubtful, as there is no good or sufficient evidence to establish

    the tenancy in the first place. The present case involves a tenant

    who allegedly entered into an oral agreement of tenancy before

    the mortgage deed was entered into between the borrower and

    Bank/Creditor. Additionally, it must be noted that tenancy

    created under such an oral agreement, results in a fresh tenancy

    after the expiry of statutory period fixed under the  T.P Act .


                                      18 
  27. The records also do not demonstrate that the appellant­tenant

    has been able to prove his status as a valid leaseholder to merit

    the protection sought for. Admittedly, an equitable mortgage on

    the secured asset was created by the respondent no. 2­

    borrower/landlord by depositing title deeds with respondent no.

    1­bank on 20.05.2000. However, the date of creation of the

    tenancy is not established in the present case. It is to be noted

    that the appellant­tenant, while seeking protection before the

    Small Causes Court, stated that the premises were let out to him

    in January, 2000, but the Court noted that the appellant­tenant

    produced photocopies of rent receipts for the period of 2001 to

    2011. Contrarily, the appellant­tenant, in this appeal before us,

    has stated that he entered into the tenancy in October, 2005.
   28. The claim of tenancy made by the appellant­tenant is not

    supported by a registered instrument. We recognise the legal

    position, as laid out in the  Vishal N. Kalsaria  Case (supra), that

    in the absence of a written lease deed the tenant may prove his

    existing rights by producing other relevant evidence before the

    Magistrate. The appellant­tenant has to produce evidence of

    payment of rent, property taxes, etc. Furthermore, if the rent and

    permitted increases were payable, then the quantum ought to

                                    19 
    have been mentioned. In addition to the above, the claim of

    tenancy could have been substantiated by relying upon other tax

    receipts such as BMC tax, water tax, electricity charges

    consumed by the tenant, etc. However, the appellant­tenant has

    only submitted xerox copies of rent receipts. 
  29. Although the Small Causes Court held that the appellant­tenant

    seems to have, prima facie, a right over the secured asset, the

    order was passed ex parte, against the respondent no. 2­

    borrower/landlord, who did not oppose the application. It is to be

    noted that the prima facie case was decided in favour of the

    appellant­tenant solely on the basis of the xerox copies of rent

    receipts produced by him.
  30. The respondent no. 1­bank has vehemently contested the bona

    fides of the appellant­tenant and has argued that the claim of

    tenancy has been raised just to defeat the legal process of

    realisation of dues as per the  SARFAESI Act . To substantiate this

    claim, the respondent no. 1­bank has placed on record a legal

    scrutiny report dated 08.05.2000, wherein the property is

    indicated   to   be   self­occupied    by   the   respondent    no.   2­

    borrower/landlord     for   residential     usage.   Additionally,    the

    aforesaid fact is corroborated by the non­encumbrance certificate


                                       20 
    submitted by the respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord at the time

    of creation of the mortgage. Furthermore, the respondent no. 1­

    bank has also placed a letter dated 12.07.2016 from the Housing

    Society that maintains the secured asset, which confirmed that

    no tenancy had been created on the secured asset.
  31. It is pertinent to note that at the time when the  SARFAESI Act 

    proceedings were pending, the factum of tenancy was never

    revealed by the parties.    The earlier order dated 09.03.2012,

    passed by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Esplanade, Mumbai

    directing the Assistant Registrar to take over the possession of the

    secured asset, is silent about any existing encumbrance over the

    secured asset. It was only after passing of the aforesaid order of

    the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, that the appellant­tenant

    started agitating his rights before the Small Causes Court based

    on a completely different fact scenario, without a whisper of the

    alleged tenancy under the concluded  Section 14 , SARFAESI Act

    proceedings. The respondent no.2­borrower/landlord did not even

    respond to the claims of the appellant­tenant. The respondent

    no.1­bank has produced multiple records to substantiate their

    claim that the tenant was nowhere to be seen earlier and that this

    tenancy was created just to defeat the proceedings initiated under


                                     21 
     the  SARFAESI Act . On the contrary, the appellant­tenant has

     failed to produce any evidence to substantiate his claim over the

     secured asset. In such a situation, the appellant­tenant cannot

     claim protection under the garb of the interim protection granted

     to him, ex parte, by solely relying upon the xerox of the rent

     receipts.
   32. In such an event, wherein the claim of the appellant­tenant is not

     supported by any conclusive evidence, the rejection of the stay

     application by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate cannot be held

     to be erroneous. Although the counsel of the appellant­tenant has

     placed ample reliance upon the  Vishal N. Kalsaria  Case (supra),

     but the same would not help the cause of the appellant­tenant

     herein, as the earlier case proceeded with the assumption of a

     valid and bona fide tenancy. But in the present case, the stay

     application of the appellant­tenant seems to be an afterthought. It

     is clear that the respondent no. 2­borrower/landlord never

     intimated the respondent no. 1­bank about the alleged tenancy.

     In light of the above, we are unable to accept the claim of bona

     fide tenancy of the appellant­tenant. 
  33. In any case, considering the counterfactual pleaded by the

     appellant­tenant himself, that he was a tenant who had entered


                                      22 
     into an oral agreement, such tenancy impliedly does not carry any

     covenant for renewal, as provided under Section 65­ A of T.P. Act .

     Therefore, in any case,  Section 13 (13)  SARFAESI Act bars

     entering into such tenancy beyond January, 2012. As the notice

     under  Section 13 (2)  SARFAESI Act was issued on 30.04.2011,

     subsequent reckoning of the tenancy is barred. Such person

     occupying the premises, when the tenancy has been determined,

     can only be treated as a ‘tenant in sufferance’. We should note

     that such tenants do not have any legal rights and are akin to

     trespassers.
  34.  In this context we may refer to  R.V. Bhupal Prasad v. State of

     A.P. and Ors. , AIR 1996 SC 140, wherein a two Judge Bench of

     this Court, speaking through Ramaswamy, J., made the following

     pertinent observations in paragraph 8 of the Report: 

             &quot;8. Tenant at sufferance is one who comes into
           possession of land by lawful title, but who holds it,
           by wrong after the termination of the term or expiry
           of the lease by efflux of time. The tenant at
           sufferance is, therefore, one who wrongfully
           continues in possession after the extinction of a
           lawful title. There is little difference between him
           and a trespasser. &quot;
 

  35. On the same lines are the decisions of this Court in  Smt. Shanti

     Devi v. Amal Kumar Banerjee , AIR 1981 SC 1550, Murlidhar


                                      23 
     Jalan      (since   deceased)   through      his   Lrs.     v.    State    of

     Meghalaya and Ors., AIR 1997 SC 2690 and D.H. Maniar and

     Ors. v. Waman Laxman Kudav , [1977] 1 SCR 403. 
  36. The operation of the  Rent Act  cannot be extended to a ‘tenant­in­

     sufferance’ vis­a­vis the  SARFAESI Act , due to the operation of

      Section 13(2)  read with  Section 13(13)  of the SARFAESI Act. A

     contrary     interpretation   would    violate   the   intention   of   the

     legislature to provide for  Section 13(13) , which has a valuable role

     in making the  SARFAESI Act  a self­executory instrument for debt

     recovery. Moreover, such an interpretation would also violate the

     mandate of  Section 35 , SARFAESI Act which is couched in broad

     terms.
  37. As noted above, this case, does not mandate the additional

     protection to be provided under the  Rent Act , to the appellant­

     tenant herein. The lower Courts are correct in ordering delivery of

     possession to the respondent no. 1­bank as the tenancy stands

     determined. Before we part, we must note that we have not

     interpreted the new amendment per se or the law with respect to

     other categories of tenants, which may be taken up in appropriate

     cases.
  38. In the present case, as we are in the year 2019, which is 7 years

     beyond the deadline of 2012, it is ordered that the appellant­
                                        24 
tenant shall hand over the possession of the secured asset within

12 weeks of this order to the Assistant Registrar at Bandra Centre

of Courts, Mumbai, who in turn shall deliver the same to the

respondent no.1­bank. This Court is further of the opinion that

such devious practices by the borrower to obstruct the rights of

the bank to legitimately realize its dues cannot be appreciated by

this Court. Accordingly, we dismiss this appeal.




                                ..............................................J.
                                                        (N.V. RAMANA)




                              ..............................................J.
                             (MOHAN M. SHANTANAGOUDAR)




                              ..............................................J.
                                                (INDIRA BANERJEE)


New Delhi,
September 11, 2019




                                 25 
 