 Balkrishna Rama Tarle Dead Through Lrs vs Phoenix Arc Private Limited on 26 September, 2022 

 Author:  M.R. Shah  

 Bench:  Krishna Murari ,  M.R. Shah  

                                                                       REPORTABLE
                               IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                           EXTRA ORDINARY APPELLATE JURISDICTION
                           SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION NO. 16013 OF 2022


          Balkrishna Rama Tarle Dead Thr LRS &amp; Anr.                    ...Petitioner(s)

                                               Versus


          Phoenix ARC Private Limited &amp; Ors.                         …Respondent(s)


                                            ORDER
 

           M.R. SHAH, J.
 
 
            1.             Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned

                         judgment and order dated 03.08.2022 passed by the High

                         Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition No.

                         9749/2021, by which the Division Bench of the High Court

                         has allowed the said writ petition preferred by the

                         respondent No. 1 herein – secured creditor and has set

                         aside order dated 27.08.2021 passed by the designated

                         authority under Section 14 of the Securitisation and

 Signature Not Verified 
                         Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
 Digitally signed by 
 SNEHA 
 Date: 2022.09.26 
 15:07:12 IST 
 Reason: 
                          Security Interest Act, 2002  (hereinafter referred to as the

                          SARFAESI    Act,   2002 )   and   directed   the   designated

                                                                                       1 
     authority under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act to dispose

     of the application under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act

     afresh, legal heirs of original respondent No. 2 claiming to

     be the tenant of the mortgaged property, have preferred

     the present Special Leave Petition.
 
 2.   The Religare Finvest Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the

     Religare) sanctioned a loan of Rs. 6 crores in favour of the

     borrowers. The said loan was secured by a registered

     mortgage created by borrowers in favour of Religare in

     respect of the property ­ secured assets. The borrowers

     committed defaults in repayment of the said loan which

     led to Religare classifying borrowers’ account as a Non­

     Performing Asset (NPA). The Religare thereafter, issued a

     notice dated 13.04.2018 under  Section 13(2)  of the

     SARFAESI Act calling upon borrowers to pay the amount

     then outstanding under the said facility. That thereafter,

     by a Deed of Assignment dated 29.09.2018, Religare

     assigned all its right, title, interest, and benefit under the

     said loan agreement to respondent No. 1 herein – original

     petitioner No. 1 before the High Court. Thus, respondent

     No. 1 – original petitioner No. 1 stepped into the shoes of

                                                                   2 
Religare and became the secured creditor and in that

capacity issued a notice dated 21.05.2019 under  Section

13(2)  of the SARFAESI Act to borrowers calling upon

borrowers to make payment of a sum of Rs. 5,83,22,866/­.

That   thereafter,    the   secured   creditor    took   symbolic

possession of the secured assets under  Section 13(4)  of the

SARFAESI Act. On 21.09.2019, the same was intimated to

the borrowers vide their letter dated 21.09.2019. A public

notice was also issued by the secured creditor in two

newspapers in compliance with the provisions of the

Security   Interest    (Enforcement)     Rules,     2002.   That

thereafter, the secured creditor filed an application under

 Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act seeking assistance of

designated authority – respondent No. 3 herein – District

Magistrate, Nashik, for taking physical possession of the

secured assets. The petitioner herein – original respondent

No. 2 claiming to be a tenant in respect of the ground floor

plus first floor showroom along with service station on a

part of the secured assets bearing Nos. 465 and 463

sought to intervene in the said proceedings filed under

 Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act. The petitioner placed

                                                                 3 
reliance upon an order dated 20.04.2018 passed in

Regular Civil Suit No. 58/2018 filed by him against one of

the    borrowers,    whereby    one    of    the   borrowers    was

restrained    from    dis­possessing        him    from   the   said

premises. At this stage, it is required to be noted that

neither the borrower(s) nor the petitioner(s) instituted any

proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT)

under  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act against the steps

taken under  Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act. That

thereafter, the designated authority passed the following

order dated 27.08.2021 and declined to assist the secured

creditor in taking possession of the secured assets and

kept the said application pending by observing that after

termination of the tenancy rights of the petitioner by the

Finance Company by following due procedure of law the

further orders regarding possession of the mortgage

property will be decided. The order dated 27.08.2021 is as

under: ­
        1.   In consideration of the reasons recorded in the
           above referred issues and conclusions, the
           Application of the Finance Company is kept for
           decision.
 
       2.   After termination of the tenancy rights of the
           third­person Complainant Shri. Balkrishna

                                                                    4 
                   Rama Tarle by the Finance Company by
                   following due procedure of law the further orders
                   regarding possession of the mortgage property
                   will be decided.
              3.     If any party feel aggrieved due to this order, then
                   they may file an appeal under  section 17  of the
                   Securitisation Act, 2002 before Hon’ble Debts
                   Recovery Tribunal, Mumbai.
 
             4.     No order as to cost.”


2.1   Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the order dated

      27.08.2021        passed     by      the    designated    authority    –

      Additional District Magistrate, Nashik in not passing any

      order of assisting the secured creditor in taking possession

      of the secured assets in exercise of powers under  Section

      14  of the SARFAESI Act, the secured creditor preferred

      writ petition before the High Court. By the impugned

      judgment and order, the Division Bench of the High Court

      has set aside order dated 27.08.2021 passed by the

      designated authority/Additional District Magistrate by

      observing that such an order is beyond the scope and

      ambit of the powers to be exercised under  Section 14  of

      the SARFAESI Act. That thereafter, the Division Bench of

      the        High    Court      has       directed    the       designated

      authority/Additional         District      Magistrate    to   hear   and



                                                                              5 
      dispose of the application under  Section 14  of the

      SARFAESI Act in accordance with the provisions of  Section

      14  of the SARFAESI Act.
 
 2.2   Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned

      judgment and order passed by the High Court, the third

      party – petitioner(s) claiming to be a tenant in some of the

      secured assets have preferred the present Special Leave

      Petition.
 
 3.    Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on

      behalf of the petitioners has vehemently submitted that in

      the facts and circumstances of the case and when the

      petitioners claimed to be the tenant of the original landlord

      with respect to some of the secured assets of which the

      possession was sought and when the original writ

      petitioner stepped into the shoes of the original landlord as

      rightly observed by the designated authority – Additional

      District Magistrate unless the secured creditor who

      stepped into the shoes of the original landlord initiates the

      legal proceedings for eviction of the tenant cannot get the

      possession in an application under  Section 14  of the

      SARFAESI Act.
 
                                                                    6 
3.1   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Navare, learned Senior

      Advocate, appearing on behalf of the petitioners that the

      High Court ought to have appreciated that the tenancy was

      subsisting and continuing since prior to the mortgage of

      the property and therefore, their rights are to be protected

      and unless and until the proceedings are initiated for

      eviction of the tenant, the secured creditor who will be in

      the shoes of the original landlord, cannot get the

      possession in an application under  Section 14  of the

      SARFAESI Act. Reliance is placed upon the decisions of

      this Court in the cases of  Harshad Govardhan Sondagar

      Vs.   International   Assets   Reconstruction    Company

      Limited and Ors. ; ( 2014) 6 SCC 1 and Vishal N. Kalsaria

      Vs. Bank of India and Ors. ; (2016) 3 SCC 762.
 
 4.    We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

      petitioners at length. At the outset, it is required to be

      noted that after initiation of the proceedings and taking

      steps under  Section 13(2)  and  13(4)  of the SARFAESI Act,

      thereafter, the secured creditor has approached the

      District Magistrate by submitting an application under

                                                                  7 
 Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act and has requested the

District Magistrate/Additional District Magistrate to assist

the secured creditor in obtaining the possession of the

secured assets. It is required to be noted that neither the

original borrowers nor even the petitioners who are

claiming to be a tenant of the secured assets have initiated

any proceedings before Debt Recovery Tribunal under

 Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act. The proceedings before

the District Magistrate were under  Section 14  of the

SARFAESI Act. In the said application under  Section 14  of

the SARFAESI Act instead of passing any final order to

assist the secured creditor in getting the possession of the

secured assets and while keeping the said application, the

Additional District Magistrate has passed an order that

only after the termination of the tenancy rights of the

petitioner by the finance company (secured creditor) by

following due procedure of law the further orders regarding

possession of the mortgage property, the said application

shall be decided.    The aforesaid order passed by the

Additional District Magistrate has been set aside by the



                                                            8 
      High Court which is the subject matter of the present

      Special Leave Petition.
 
 5.    Therefore,    the   short    question     which    is   posed        for

      consideration of this Court is whether while exercising the

      powers under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, the District

      Magistrate/designated authority could have passed such

      an order that unless and until the secured creditor

      terminates the tenancy rights of the third person by

      following    due    procedure of law        and    further    orders

      regarding possession of the mortgaged property then and

      then only an application under  Section 14  of the

      SARFAESI Act will be decided?
 
 5.1   While considering the aforesaid question/issue, the scope,

      ambit,       and       jurisdiction       of      the        District

      Magistrate/designated authority under  Section 14  of the

      SARFAESI Act are required to be considered.  Section 14  of

      the SARFAESI Act reads as under: ­
          “14. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate
          to assist secured creditor in taking possession of secured
          asset.—(1) Where the possession of any secured assets is
          required to be taken by the secured creditor or if any of the
          secured assets is required to be sold or transferred by the
          secured creditor under the provisions of this Act, the secured
          creditor may, for the purpose of taking possession or control
          of any such secured assets, request, in writing, the Chief
          Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate within

                                                                             9 
whose jurisdiction any such secured asset or other
documents relating thereto may be situated or found, to take
possession thereof, and the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or
as the case may be, the District Magistrate shall, on such
request being made to him—

  (a)   take possession of such asset and documents relating
thereto; and

  (b) forward such asset and documents to the secured
creditor:
  [Provided that any application by the secured creditor shall
be accompanied by an affidavit duly affirmed by the
authorised officer of the secured creditor, declaring that—

  (i) the aggregate amount of financial assistance granted and
the total claim of the Bank as on the date of filing the
application;
 
 (ii)the borrower has created security interest over various
properties and that the Bank or Financial Institution is
holding a valid and subsisting security interest over such
properties and the claim of the Bank or Financial Institution
is within the limitation period;
 
 (iii)the borrower has created security interest over various
properties giving the details of properties referred to in sub­
clause (ii)above;
 
 (iv) the borrower has committed default in repayment of the
financial assistance granted aggregating the specified
amount;
 
 (v) consequent upon such default in repayment of the
financial assistance the account of the borrower has been
classified as a non­performing asset;
 
 (vi) affirming that the period of sixty days notice as required
by the provisions of sub­section (2) of  section 13 , demanding
payment of the defaulted financial assistance has been
served on the borrower;
 
 (vii) the objection or representation in reply to the notice
received from the borrower has been considered by the
secured creditor and reasons for non­acceptance of such
objection or representation had been communicated to the
borrower;
 

                                                                   10 
 (viii) the borrower has not made any repayment of the
financial assistance in spite of the above notice and the
Authorised Officer is, therefore, entitled to take possession of
the secured assets under the provisions of sub­section (4) of
 section 13  read with  section 14  of the principal Act;
 
 (ix) that the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder had been complied with:
 
        Provided further that on receipt of the affidavit from
the Authorised Officer, the District Magistrate or the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, shall after
satisfying the contents of the affidavit pass suitable orders
for the purpose of taking possession of the secured assets
[within a period of thirty days from the date of application]

      [Provided also that if no order is passed by the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate within the
said period of thirty days for reasons beyond his control, he
may, after recording reasons in writing for the same, pass
the order within such further period but not exceeding in
aggregate sixty days.]

      Provided also that the requirement of filing affidavit
stated in the first proviso shall not apply to proceeding
pending before any District Magistrate or the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, on the date of
commencement of this Act.]

        [(1A) The District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate may authorise any officer subordinate to him,—
  (i)to take possession of such assets and documents relating
thereto; and (ii) to forward such assets and documents to the
secured creditor.]

      (2) For the purpose of securing compliance with the
provisions of sub­section (1), the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate or the District Magistrate may take or cause to be
taken such steps and use, or cause to be used, such force,
as may, in his opinion, be necessary.
 
        (3) No act of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the
District Magistrate [any officer authorised by the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate] done in
pursuance of this section shall be called in question in any
court or before any authority.”



                                                                    11 
5.2   On a fair reading of  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, it

      appears that for taking possession of the secured assets in

      terms of  Section 14(1)  of the SARFAESI Act, the secured

      creditor   is    obliged    to   approach      the    District

      Magistrate/Chief Metropolitan Magistrate by way of a

      written application requesting for taking possession of the

      secured assets and documents relating thereto and for

      being forwarded to it (secured creditor) for further action.
 
            The statutory obligation enjoined upon the CMM/DM

      is to immediately move into action after receipt of a written

      application under  Section 14(1)  of the SARFAESI Act from

      the secured creditor for that purpose. As soon as such an

      application is received, the CMM/DM is expected to pass

      an order after verification of compliance of all formalities

      by the secured creditor referred to in the proviso in  Section

      14(1)  of the SARFAESI Act and after being satisfied in that

      regard, to take possession of the secured assets and

      documents relating thereto and to forward the same to the

      secured creditor at the earliest opportunity. As observed

      and held by this Court in the case of  NKGSB Cooperative

      Bank Limited Vs. Subir Chakravarty &amp; Ors. (Civil Appeal
                                                                      12 
No.  1637/2022) decided on 25.02.2022, the aforesaid act

is a ministerial act. It cannot brook delay. Time is of the

essence and this is the spirit of the special enactment.   In

the recent decision in the case of M/s  R.D. Jain and Co.

Vs. Capital First Ltd. &amp; Ors. (Civil Appeal No.  175/2022)

decided on 27.07.2022, this Court had an occasion to

consider     the     powers       exercisable       by      District

Magistrate/Chief Metropolitan Magistrate under  Section

14  of the SARFAESI Act. After considering the object and

purpose of Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act and the

Scheme of the Act under  Section 14 , it is observed and

held in paragraphs 7 to 9 as under: ­
   “7. Now so far as the powers exercisable by DM and CMM
   under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act are concerned,
   statement of objects and reasons for which  SARFAESI Act 
   has been enacted reads as under: ­

           “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

   The financial sector has been one of the key drivers in India&#x27;s
   efforts to achieve success in rapidly developing its economy.
   While the banking industry in India is progressively
   complying with the international prudential norms and
   accounting practices there are certain areas in which the
   banking and financial sector do not have a level playing field
   as compared to other participants in the financial markets in
   the world. There is no legal provision for facilitating
   securitisation of financial assets of banks and financial
   institutions. Further, unlike international banks, the banks
   and financial institutions in India do not have power to take
   possession of securities and sell them. Our existing legal
   framework relating to commercial transactions has not kept
   pace with the changing commercial practices and financial

                                                                      13 
sector reforms. This has resulted in slow pace of recovery of
defaulting loans and mounting levels of non­performing
assets of banks and financial institutions. Narasimham
Committee I and II and Andhyarujina Committee constituted
by the Central Government for the purpose of examining
banking sector reforms have considered the need for changes
in the legal system in respect of these areas. These
Committees, inter alia, have suggested enactment of a new
legislation for securitisation and empowering banks and
financial institutions to take possession of the securities and
to sell them without the intervention of the court. Acting on
these suggestions, the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated on the 21st June, 2002 to
regulate securitisation and reconstruction of financial assets
and enforcement of security interest and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto. The provisions of
the Ordinance would enable banks and financial institutions
to realise long­term assets, manage problem of liquidity,
asset liability mismatches and improve recovery by
exercising powers to take possession of securities, sell them
and reduce nonperforming assets by adopting measures for
recovery or reconstruction.”

       Thus, the underlying purpose of the  SARFAESI Act  is
to empower the financial institutions in India to have similar
powers as enjoyed by their counterparts, namely,
international banks in other countries. One such feature is
to empower the financial institutions to take possession of
securities and sell them. The same has been translated into
provisions falling under  Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act .
 Section 13  deals with enforcement of security interest. Sub­
Section (4) thereof envisages that in the event a default is
committed by the borrower in discharging his liability in full
within the period specified in sub­section (2), the secured
creditor may take recourse to one or more of the measures
provided in sub­section (4). One of the measures is to take
possession of the secured assets of the borrower including
the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale for
realising the secured asset. That, they could do through
their “authorised officer” as defined in Rule 2(a) of the
Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002.

7.1 After taking over possession of the secured assets,
further steps to lease, assign or sale the same could also be
taken by the secured creditor. However,  Section 14  of the
SARFAESI Act predicates that if the secured creditor intends
to take possession of the secured assets, must approach the

                                                                   14 
CMM/DM by way of an application in writing, and on receipt
of such request, the CMM/DM must move into action in
right earnest. After passing an order thereon, he/she
(CMM/DM) must proceed to take possession of the secured
assets and documents relating thereto for being forwarded to
the secured creditor in terms of  Section 14(1)  read with
 Section 14(2)  of the SARFAESI Act. As noted earlier,  Section
14(2)  is an enabling provision and permits the CMM/DM to
take such steps and use force, as may, in his opinion, be
necessary. 
 
  7.2 At this stage, it is required to be noted that along with
insertion of sub­section (1A), a proviso has also been
inserted in sub­section (1) of  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act
whereby the secured creditor is now required to comply
certain conditions and to disclose that by way of an
application accompanied by affidavit duly affirmed by its
authorised officer in that regard. Sub­Section (1A) is in the
nature of an explanatory provision and it merely restates the
implicit power of the CMM/DM in taking services of any
officer subordinate to him. As observed and held by this
Court in the case of  NKGSB Cooperative Bank Ltd.  (supra),
the insertion of sub­section (1A) is not to invest a new power
for the first time in the CMM/DM as such. 
 
 8. Thus, considering the scheme of the  SARFAESI Act , it is
explicit and crystal clear that possession of the secured
assets can be taken by the secured creditor before
confirmation of sale of the secured assets as well as post­
confirmation of sale. For taking possession of the secured
assets, it could be done by the “authorised officer” of the
Bank as noted in Rule 8 of the Security Interest
(Enforcement) Rules, 2002.
 
  8.1 However, for taking physical possession of the secured
assets in terms of  Section 14(1)  of the SARFAESI Act, the
secured creditor is obliged to approach the CMM/DM by way
of a written application requesting for taking possession of
the secured assets and documents relating thereto and for
being forwarded to it (secured creditor) for further action.
The statutory obligation enjoined upon the CMM/DM is to
immediately move into action after receipt of a written
application under  Section 14(1)  of the SARFAESI Act from
the secured creditor for that purpose. As soon as such an
application is received, the CMM/DM is expected to pass an
order after verification of compliance of all formalities by the
secured creditor referred to in the proviso in  Section 14(1)  of
the SARFAESI Act and after being satisfied in that regard, to

                                                                    15 
   take possession of the secured assets and documents
   relating thereto and to forward the same to the secured
   creditor at the earliest opportunity. As mandated by  Section
   14  of the SARFAESI Act, the CMM/DM has to act within the
   stipulated time limit and pass a suitable order for the
   purpose of taking possession of the secured assets within a
   period of 30 days from the date of application which can be
   extended for such further period but not exceeding in the
   aggregate, sixty days. Thus, the powers exercised by the
   CMM/DM is a ministerial act. He cannot brook delay. Time
   is of the essence. This is the spirit of the special enactment.
   As observed and held by this Court in the case of  NKGSB
   Cooperative Bank Ltd.  (supra), the step taken by the
   CMM/DM while taking possession of the secured assets and
   documents relating thereto is a ministerial step. It could be
   taken by the CMM/DM himself/herself or through any
   officer subordinate to him/her, including the advocate
   commissioner who is considered as an officer of his/her
   court.  Section 14  does not oblige the CMM/DM to go
   personally and take possession of the secured assets and
   documents relating thereto. Thus, we reiterate that the step
   to be taken by the CMM/DM under  Section 14  of the
   SARFAESI Act, is a ministerial step. While disposing of the
   application under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, no
   element of quasi­judicial function or application of mind
   would require. The Magistrate has to adjudicate and decide
   the correctness of the information given in the application
   and nothing more. Therefore,  Section 14  does not involve an
   adjudicatory process qua points raised by the borrower
   against the secured creditor taking possession of secured
   assets. 
 
    9. Thus, in view of the scheme of the  SARFAESI Act , more
   particularly,  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act and the nature
   of the powers to be exercised by learned Chief Metropolitan
   Magistrate/learned District Magistrate, the High Court in the
   impugned judgment and order has rightly observed and held
   that the power vested in the learned Chief Metropolitan
   Magistrate/learned District Magistrate is not by way of
   persona designata.”

   Thus, the powers exercisable by CMM/DM under

 Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act are ministerial step and

 Section 14  does not involve any adjudicatory process qua


                                                                      16 
points raised by the borrowers against the secured creditor

taking possession of the secured assets. In that view of the

matter once all the requirements under  Section 14  of the

SARFAESI Act are complied with/satisfied by the secured

creditor, it is the duty cast upon the CMM/DM to assist

the secured creditor in obtaining the possession as well as

the documents related to the secured assets even with the

help of any officer subordinate to him and/or with the help

of an advocate appointed as Advocate Commissioner. At

that stage, the CMM/DM is not required to adjudicate the

dispute between the borrower and the secured creditor

and/or between any other third party and the secured

creditor with respect to the secured assets and the

aggrieved party to be relegated to raise objections in the

proceedings under  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act, before

Debts Recovery Tribunal. Under the circumstances in the

present case no error has been committed by the High

Court in setting aside the order dated 27.08.2021 passed

by the designated authority keeping the application

pending till the secured creditor initiates the legal

proceedings for eviction of the tenant cannot get the

                                                           17 
     possession in an application under  Section 14  of the

     SARFAESI Act. The High Court has rightly directed the

     designated   authority   to   proceed   further   with   the

     application under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, and to

     dispose of the same in accordance with the provisions of

      Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act.
 
  6.   Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this

     Court in the case of  Harshad Govardhan Sondagar 

     (supra) by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

     petitioner is concerned, the same shall not be applicable to

     the facts of the case on hand, what is observed by this

     Court in the aforesaid case is the DM/CMM has to give a

     notice and opportunity of hearing to the person in

     possession of the secured assets claiming to be a “Class (1)

     or (2)” lessee of mortgagor/borrower, as well as to secured

     creditor, consistent with principles of natural justice, and

     then take a decision. In  the said decision , it is not

     observed that the DM/CMM has to adjudicate the rights

     between the parties. 
 
  7.   Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this

     Court in the case of  Vishal N. Kalsaria  (supra) by the
                                                                18 
     learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner is

     concerned ,  the said decision   shall also not be applicable to

     the facts of the case on hand. In  the said decision , the

     question before this Court was of conflict of claim under

     the    Maharashtra    Rent   Control   Act,   1999    and   the

     provisions of the  SARFAESI Act , and which law will

     prevail. The scope and ambit of the powers to be exercised

     under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act were not directly in

     question before this Court. Even as observed and held by

     this Court in the aforesaid decision, a judgment cannot be

     interpreted and applied to fact situations by reading it as a

     statute. One cannot pick up a word or sentence from a

     judgment to construe that it is the ratio decidendi on the

     relevant aspects of the case (para 33). 
 
 
  8.   In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, we

     are of the opinion that the High Court has not committed

     any error in passing the judgment and order and directing

     the designated authority to dispose of the application

     under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act. We are in complete




                                                                 19 
     agreement with the view taken by the High Court. The

     Special Leave Petition stands dismissed.  


                                   ………………………………….J.
                                   [M.R. SHAH]



NEW DELHI;                         ………………………………….J.
SEPTEMBER 26, 2022                 [KRISHNA MURARI]




                                                        20 
 