 C. Bright vs The District Collector on 5 November, 2020 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2020 SUPREME COURT 5747, AIRONLINE 2020 SC 818 

 Author:  Hemant Gupta  

 Bench:  Ajay Rastogi ,  Hemant Gupta ,  L. Nageswara Rao  

                                                                                    REPORTABLE

                                          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

                                            CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION


                                         CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3441 OF 2020
                                 (ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. 12381 OF 2020)
                                           (DIARY NO. 46087 OF 2019)



                      C. BRIGHT                                                  .....APPELLANT(S)


                                                              VERSUS


                      THE DISTRICT COLLECTOR &amp; ORS.                            .....RESPONDENT(S)



                                                 JUDGMENT
 
                       HEMANT GUPTA, J.
 
 
                        1.      The challenge in the present appeal is to an order passed by the

                              Division Bench of the Kerala High Court of 19.7.2019, whereby it

                              was held that  Section 14  of the Securitisation and Reconstruction

                              of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 1

                              mandating the District Magistrate to deliver possession of a

                              secured asset within 30 days, extendable to an aggregate of 60
 Signature Not Verified 

 Digitally signed by 
 Vishal Anand 
                              days upon reasons recorded in writing, is a directory provision.
 Date: 2020.11.05 
 16:30:42 IST 
 Reason: 

                              The High Court held as under:
 
                       1    For short “the Act”

                                                                                                  1 
            “18. The primary question in these Writ Petitions,
            namely, whether the time limits in  section 14  of the
            SARFAESI Act are mandatory or directory should be
            answered in light of the principles enumerated above.
              As stated above, the object and purpose of the said
            time limit is to ensure that such applications are
            decided expeditiously so as to enable secured creditors
            to take physical possession quickly and realise their
            dues. Moreover, as stated earlier, the consequences of
            non-compliance with the time limit are not specified
            and the sequitur thereof would be that the district
            collector/district magistrate concerned would not be
            divested of jurisdiction upon expiry of the time limit. In
            this connection, it is also pertinent to bear in mind that
            if the “consequences of non-compliance” test is
            applied, the borrower, guarantor or lessee, as the case
            may be, is not adversely affected or prejudiced, in any
            manner, whether such applications are decided in 60,
            70 or 80 days. On the other hand, the secured creditor
            is adversely affected if the provision is construed as
            mandatory and not directory in as much as it would
            delay the process of taking physical possession of
            assets instead of expediting such process by entailing
            the filing of another application for such purpose. For
            all these reasons, the time limit stipulation in the
            amended  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act is directory
            and not mandatory.”

  2.   The High Court examined  Section 14  of the Act as amended, which

     reads thus:
 
             “14. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate
            to assist secured creditor in taking possession of
            secured asset.- (1)

                    xx                xx                   xx

            Provided, further that on receipt of the affidavit from
            the Authorised Officer, the District Magistrate or the
            Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be,
            shall, after satisfying the contents of the affidavit pass
            suitable orders for the purpose of taking possession of
            the secured asset within a period of thirty days from the

                                                                          2 
                  date of application:
 
                   Provided also that if no order is passed by the Chief
                  Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate within the
                  said period of thirty days for reasons beyond his
                  control, he may, after recording reasons in writing for
                  the same, pass the order within such period not
                  exceeding in the aggregate sixty days.”


   3.       The Act  was enacted in the year 2002 for reasons that the legal

        framework relating to commercial transactions had not kept pace

        with the changing commercial practices. Further, financial sector

        reforms resulted in a slow pace of recovery of defaulting loans and

        mounting level of non-performing assets of banking and financial

        institutions. The objectives behind the Act, recognised that unlike

        international banks, banks and financial institutions in India, did

        not have power to take possession of securities and sell them. The

        provisions of the Act were upheld by this Court except that of sub-

        section (2) of  Section 17  which provided that the Debt Recovery

        Tribunal shall not entertain an appeal preferred by a borrower

        unless seventy-five per cent of the amount claimed has been

        deposited before it2. Thereafter, the question as to whether the

        withdrawal of an application filed under the Recovery of Debts due

        to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 19933 is a condition

        precedent to take recourse to the Act was examined by this Court 4.

        This Court observed that when Civil Courts failed to expeditiously
2     Mardia Chemicals Ltd. &amp; Ors. v. Union of India &amp; Ors. , (2004) 4 SCC 311
3    For short “ DRT Act ”
4    Transcore v. Union of India and Another, (2008) 1 SCC 125

                                                                                3 
         decide suits filed by the banks, the  DRT Act  was enacted, however

         it did not provide for assignment of debts to Securitisation compa-

         nies.  The Act  which was enacted thereafter in 2002 sought to fur-

         ther empower the banks and facilitate the recovery of debt. It pro-

         ceeded on the basis that once the liability of a borrower to repay

         crystallises; it becomes due and that on account of delay, the ac-

         count of such borrower becomes substandard and non-performing. 

  4.       Recently, this Court noticed the objects and reasons for amending

         the Act in 2014 and held that the Magistrate takes possession of

         the asset and “forwards” such asset to the secured creditor under

          Section 14(1) ; the management of the business of a borrower can

         actually be taken over under  Section 15  of the Act and that

          Section 13(4)  must be read in the light of  Sections 14  and  15 .

         These are separate and distinct modes of exercise of powers by a

         secured creditor under the Act5.
 
  5.        Section 14  of the Act, as originally enacted, empowered the Chief

         Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate to take posses-

         sion of such assets and documents relating to secured assets.

         Later, by the Central Act No. 1 of 2013, which came into force on

         15.1.2013, a proviso to sub-section (1) of  Section 14  of the Act

         was inserted contemplating that upon filing of an affidavit, in the

         format mentioned therein, by an Authorised Officer of the secured

5     Hindon Forge Private Limited &amp; Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh  through District Magistrate,
     Ghaziabad &amp; Anr. (2019) 2 SCC 198

                                                                                                   4 
        creditor, the District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan Magis- 

          trate shall pass suitable orders for the purpose of taking posses-

        sion of the secured assets. It is, thereafter, the Act was amended

        vide Central Act 44 of 2016, which came into force on 1.9.2016.


     6.      The argument of Mr. Khan, learned counsel for the appellant, is

        that the proviso mandating the District Magistrate to record rea-

        sons, if the order is not passed within 30 days, in order to avail an

        extended period of a total 60 days, shows that the provision is

        mandatory. If the District Magistrate is not able to take decision

        within 60 days, the secured creditor has to find its remedy else-

        where and not in terms of  Section 14  of the Act. It is contended

        that the proviso mandates the District Magistrate to pass an order

        within 30 days as the word “shall” is used in first part of the pro-

        viso. Thus, the time limit provided is unambiguous and by corollary

        the provision is mandatory. Reliance is placed on the judgments of

        this Court in  Union of India &amp; Ors. v. A.K. Pandey6 ,  Harshad

        Govardhan Sondagar v. International Assets Reconstruc- 

        tion  Company Limited &amp; Ors.7, Dipak Babaria &amp; Anr. v. State

        of Gujarat &amp; Ors.8 , in support of his arguments that the use of

        expression “shall” and the language of the second proviso in fixing

        the time limit of 60 days after recording of reasons makes the pro-


6    (2009) 10 SCC 552
7    (2014) 6 SCC 1
8    (2014) 3 SCC 502

                                                                             5 
        vision mandatory. If the District Magistrate has not been able to

        take possession, the proceedings before him abates.   

  7.      A well settled rule of interpretation of the statutes is that the use

        of the word “shall” in a statute, does not necessarily mean that in

        every case it is mandatory that unless the words of the statute are

        literally   followed,   the   proceeding     or   the    outcome     of   the

        proceeding, would be invalid. It is not always correct to say that if

        the word “may” has been used, the statute is only permissive or

        directory in the sense that non-compliance with those provisions

        will not render the proceeding invalid9 and that when a statute

        uses the word “shall”, prima facie, it is mandatory, but the Court

        may ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully at-

        tending to the whole scope of the statute 10. The principle of literal

        construction of the statute alone in all circumstances without ex-

        amining the context and scheme of the statute may not serve the

        purpose of the statute11.
 
    8.      The question as to whether, a time limit fixed for a public officer to

        perform a public duty is directory or mandatory has been

        examined earlier by the Courts as well. A question arose before

        the Privy Council in respect of irregularities in the preliminary

        proceedings for constituting a jury panel.          The Municipality was


9  State of U.P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava ,  AIR 1957 SC 912
10 State of U.P. &amp; Ors. v. Babu Ram Upadhya ,  AIR 1961 SC 751
11 Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. &amp; Ors.  ,
     (1987) 1 SCC 424

                                                                                         6 
      expected to revise the list of qualified persons but the jury was

      drawn from the old list as the Sheriff neglected to revise the same.

      It was in these circumstances, the decision of the jury drawn from

      the old list became the subject matter of consideration by the

      Privy Council. It was thus held that it would cause greater public

      inconvenience if it were held that neglecting to observe the

      provisions of the statute made the verdicts of all juries taken from

      the list ipso facto null and void so that no jury trials could be held

      until a duly revised list had been prepared12.   
 
  9.    The Constitution Bench of this Court held that when the provisions

      of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and the

      case is such that to hold acts done in neglect of this duty as null

      and void, would cause serious general inconvenience or injustice

      to persons who have no control over those entrusted with the

      duty, the practice of the courts should be to hold such provisions

      as directory13. In a seven Bench judgment, this Court was consid-

      ering as to whether the power of the Returning Officer to reject

      ballot papers is mandatory or directory. The Court examined well-

      recognised rules of construction to observe that a statute should

      be construed as directory if it relates to the performance of public

      duties, or if the conditions prescribed therein have to be per-




12 Montreal Street Railway Company v. Normandin,  AIR 1917 PC 142
13 Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar v. State of Bombay &amp; Ors. , AIR 1952 SC 181

                                                                                7 
      formed by persons other than those on whom the right is con- 

        ferred14.
 
 10.   In a judgment reported as Remington Rand of India Ltd. v.

        Workmen15,  Section 17  of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 came

      up for consideration. The argument raised was that the time limit

      of 30 days of publication of award by the labour court is

      mandatory. This Court held that though  Section 17  is mandatory,

      the time limit to publish the award within 30 days is directory

      inter-alia for the reason that the non-publication of the award

      within the period of thirty days does not entail any penalty.

  11.    In  T.V. Usman v. Food Inspector, Tellicherry Municipality,

      Tellicherry16 , the time period during which report of the analysis

      of a sample under Rule 7(3) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration

      Rules, 1955 was to be given, was held to be directory as there was

      no time-limit prescribed within which the prosecution had to be

      instituted. When there was no such limit prescribed then there was

      no valid reason for holding the period of 45 days as mandatory. Of

      course, that does not mean that the Public Analyst can ignore the

      time-limit prescribed under the rules. He must in all cases try to

      comply with the time-limit. But if there is some delay, in a given

      case, there is no reason to hold that the very report is void and, on

      that basis, to hold that even prosecution cannot be launched. 
 14  Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Ahmad Ishaque &amp; Ors.AIR  1955 SC 233
15 AIR 1968 SC 224
16 (1994) 1 SCC 754 

                                                                           8 
  12.   This Court distinguished between failure of an individual to act in a

      given time frame and the time frame provided to a public

      authority, for the purposes of determining whether a provision was

      mandatory or directory, when this Court held that it is a well-

      settled principle that if an act is required to be performed by a

      private person within a specified time, the same would ordinarily

      be mandatory but when a public functionary is required to perform

      a public function within a time-frame, the same will be held to be

      directory unless the consequences therefor are specified17.

  13.     In  P.T. Rajan v. T.P.M. Sahir &amp; Ors.18 , this Court examined the

       affect of non-publication of final electoral rolls before the time of

       acceptance of nomination papers. The Court held as under: 

                  “48. Furthermore, even if the statute specifies a time
               for publication of the electoral roll, the same by itself
               could not have been held to be mandatory. Such a
               provision would be directory in nature. It is a well-
               settled principle of law that where a statutory
               functionary is asked to perform a statutory duty within
               the time prescribed therefor, the same would be
               directory and not mandatory. (See  Shiveshwar Prasad
               Sinha v. District Magistrate of Monghyr  [AIR 1966 Pat
               144 : ILR 45 Pat 436 (FB)] , Nomita Chowdhury v. State
               of W.B. [(1999) 2 Cal LJ 21] and Garbari Union Coop. 
                 Agricultural Credit Society Ltd. v. Swapan Kumar
               Jana [(1997) 1 CHN 189] .)”

   14.    A recent Constitution Bench held that the provisions of the

        Consumer Protection Act  granting 30 days’ time to file response by


17  Nasiruddin &amp; Ors. v. Sita Ram Agarwal , (2003) 2 SCC 577
18 (2003) 8 SCC 498

                                                                            9 
      the opposite party or such extended period not exceeding 15 days

      is mandatory as the object of the statute is for the benefit and

      protection of the consumer. It observed that such act had been

      enacted to provide expeditious disposal of consumer disputes. In

      this case, an individual was called upon to file his written

      statement in contradiction for a pubic authority to decide the issue

      before it19. 
 
 15.   The Full Bench of Patna High Court in Shiveshwar Prasad Sinha

      was examining the provisions of the  Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent

      and Eviction) Control Act, 1947  which permitted a Government

      servant in occupation of a building as a tenant to serve a notice of

      15 days on the landlord and the District Magistrate of his intention

      to vacate the premises. The High Court held that the Government

      servant to whom the house was allotted had no control over the

      District Magistrate, therefore, the time limit required by the

      provision was not mandatory.
 
 
    16.   A Single Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court 20 examined the

      provisions of  Section 14  of the Act as amended. The Court held

      that the second proviso to sub-section (1) of  Section 14  was

      inserted in order to ensure that Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or

      District Magistrate pass the order within a stipulated time.  The


19 New India Assurance Company Limited v. Hilli Multipurpose Cold Storage Private
   Limited , (2020) 5 SCC 757
20 In  Manish Makhija v. Central Bank of India &amp; Ors. , 2018 SCC OnLine MP 553

                                                                                     10 
        Bank/secured creditor has no control over the District Magistrate.  

          After filing an application under sub-section (1) of  Section 14 , the

        Bank had no authority to compel the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate

        or District Magistrate to pass orders within reasonable time. The

        legislature, in order to bind the said authorities, inserted the said

        proviso. Thus, the basic object and purpose was to fix a time limit

        for the concerned Magistrate to pass an order and not to give a

        clean chit to an unscrupulous borrower/guarantor, who had not

        repaid the debts.
 
 
  17.    Now, coming to the Judgments referred to by Mr. Khan. In A.K.

       Pandey, the respondent was not provided 96 hours of interval time

       as contemplated by the relevant rules, before commencing a trial

       by the Court Martial. This Court held that such proceedings were

       vitiated     as the purpose of the time limit was that before the

       accused is called upon for trial, he must be given adequate time to

       give a cool thought to the charge or charges for which he is to be

       tried, decide about his defence and ask the authorities, if

       necessary, to take reasonable steps in procuring the attendance of

       his witnesses. He may even decide not to defend the charge(s) but

       before he decides his line of action, he must be given clear ninety-

       six hours.
 
 
   18.    Harshad Govardhan Sondagar was a case where the person in


                                                                            11 
      possession claimed tenancy rights in the premises as well as a

      protected tenancy, being a tenant prior to creation of a mortgage.

      It was held that the remedy of an aggrieved person against a

      decision of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or a District Magistrate

      lay only before the High Court.            However, after the aforesaid

      judgment was rendered on 3.4.2014, the Act had been amended

      and sub-section 4A was inserted in  Section 17  with effect from

      1.9.2016. This provided a right to move an application to the

      Debts Recovery Tribunal by a person who claimed tenancy or

      leasehold rights.
 
 19.   Dipak Babaria was a case wherein agricultural land was sold by

      an     agriculturist   to    another   person   for   industrial   purposes.

      Permission was to be granted by the Collector for the same. In

      these circumstances, it was held that when a statute provides for

      a thing to be done in a particular manner then it should be done in

      that    manner     itself.     Such    proposition    does   not   arise   for

      consideration in the present case.
 
 20.    The Act  was enacted to provide a machinery for empowering

      banks and financial institutions, so that they may have the power

      to take possession of secured assets and to sell them.  The DRT

      Act  was first enacted to streamline the recovery of public dues but

      the proceedings under the said Act have not given desirous re-

      sults. Therefore, the Act in question was enacted. This Court in


                                                                                  12 
Mardia Chemical, Transcore and Hindon Forge Private Lim-

ited has held that the purpose of the Act pertains to the speedy

recovery of dues, by banks and financial institutions. The true in-

tention of the Legislature is a determining factor herein. Keeping

the objective of the Act in mind, the time limit to take action by

the District Magistrate has been fixed to impress upon the author-

ity to take possession of the secured assets. However, inability to

take possession within time limit does not render the District Mag-

istrate Functus Officio. The secured creditor has no control over

the District Magistrate who is exercising jurisdiction under  Section

14  of the Act for public good to facilitate recovery of public dues.

Therefore,  Section 14  of the Act is not to be interpreted literally

without considering the object and purpose of the Act. If any other

interpretation is placed upon the language of  Section 14 , it would

be contrary to the purpose of the Act. The time limit is to instill a

confidence in creditors that the District Magistrate will make an at-

tempt to deliver possession as well as to impose a duty on the Dis-

trict Magistrate to make an earnest effort to comply with the man-

date of the statute to deliver the possession within 30 days and for

reasons to be recorded within 60 days. In this light, the remedy

under  Section 14  of the Act is not rendered redundant if the Dis-

trict Magistrate is unable to handover the possession. The District




                                                                    13 
      Magistrate will still be enjoined upon, the duty to facilitate delivery

      of possession at the earliest.
 
  21.   Even though, this Court in  United Bank of India v. Satyawati

      Tondon &amp; Ors.21  held that in cases relating to recovery of the

      dues of banks, financial institutions and secured creditors, stay

      granted by the High Court would have serious adverse impact on

      the    financial   health   of   such   bodies/institutions,   which   will

      ultimately prove detrimental to the economy of the nation.

      Therefore, the High Court should be extremely careful and

      circumspect in exercising its discretion to grant stay in such

      matters. Hindon Forge Private Limited has held that the rem-

      edy of an aggrieved person by a secured creditor under the Act is

      by way of an application before the Debts Recovery Tribunal, how-

      ever, borrowers and other aggrieved persons are invoking the ju-

      risdiction of the High Court under  Articles 226  or 227 of the Consti-

      tution of India without availing the alternative statutory remedy.

      The Hon’ble High Courts are well aware of the limitations in exer-

      cising their jurisdiction when affective alternative remedies are

      available, but a word of caution would be still necessary for the

      High Courts that interim orders should generally not be passed

      without hearing the secured creditor as interim orders defeat the

      very purpose of expeditious recovery of public money.


21 (2010) 8 SCC 110 

                                                                               14 
  22.   Thus, we do not find any error in the order passed by the High

      Court. Consequently, the appeal is dismissed.




                                       .............................................J.
                                                    (L. NAGESWARA RAO)



                                     .............................................J.
                                                          (HEMANT GUPTA)



                                     .............................................J.
                                                             (AJAY RASTOGI)
NEW DELHI;
  NOVEMBER 5, 2020.
 
 


                                                                                  15 
 