 M/S Hindon Forge Pvt. Ltd. vs The State Of Uttar Pradesh Thr. District ... on 1 November, 2018 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2018 SUPREME COURT 5383, 2019 (2) SCC 198, AIRONLINE 2018 SC 835, 2019 (1) ALJ 357, (2019) 193 ALLINDCAS 135 (SC), (2018) 14 SCALE 543, (2018) 4 BANKCAS 573, (2018) 4 CURCC 105, (2018) 4 JLJR 430, (2018) 4 KER LJ 726, (2018) 4 RECCIVR 948, (2019) 132 ALL LR 690, (2019) 193 ALLINDCAS 135, (2019) 1 CAL HN 190, (2019) 1 CIVLJ 772, (2019) 1 MAD LJ 788, (2019) 1 PAT LJR 47 

 Author:  R.F. Nariman  

 Bench:  Navin Sinha ,  R.F. Nariman  

                                                                        REPORTABLE


                                    IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

                                      CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                                    CIVIL APPEAL NO. 10873 OF 2018
                              [ARISING OUT OF SLP(CIVIL) NO.5895 OF 2018]


                M/S HINDON FORGE PVT. LTD. &amp; ANR.                   …APPELLANTS

                                                  VERSUS

                THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                THROUGH DISTRICT MAGISTRATE
                GHAZIABAD &amp; ANR.                                    …RESPONDENTS

                                                     WITH

                                    CIVIL APPEAL NO. 10874 OF 2018
                              [ARISING OUT OF SLP(CIVIL) NO.12841 OF 2018]


                                                JUDGMENT
 
                          R.F. NARIMAN, J.
 

                          1.   Leave granted.
 
                          2.   These matters come to us from a Full Bench judgment of

 Signature Not Verified   the Allahabad High Court dated 06.02.2018. By an order of 
 Digitally signed by R 
 NATARAJAN 
 Date: 2018.11.01 
 16:54:29 IST 
Reason:                  reference dated 19.09.2017, a learned Single Judge noticed

                         divergent opinions expressed by two different Benches of the
                                                                                         1 
Allahabad High Court on the question whether an application

under  section 17(1)  of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of

Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act,

2002 (hereinafter referred to as the “ SARFAESI Act ” or the

“Act”), at the instance of a borrower, is maintainable even

before physical or actual possession of secured assets is taken

by banks/financial institutions in exercise of their powers under

 section 13(4)  of the Act read with rule 8 of the Security Interest

(Enforcement) Rules, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the “2002

Rules”). After discussing the various provisions of the Act, the

2002 Rules and judgments of the Supreme Court, the Full

Bench summarised the true legal position according to it as

follows:
 
      “29. The upshot of legal position that emerges from
     the judgments of the Supreme Court, insofar as the
     question referred to for our consideration is
     concerned, briefly stated, is as under:
       (a) The remedy of an application under  Section
     17(1)  is available only after the measures under
      Section 13(4)  have been taken by the Bank/FIs
     against the borrower.  
     (b) The issue of notice under Section 13(2) to     the
     borrower and communication contemplated             by
     Section      13(3-A)      stating     that         his
     representation/objection is not acceptable          or
                                                                      2 
  tenable, does not attract the application of principles
of natural justice. In other words, no recourse to an
application under  Section 17(1) , at that stage, is
available/maintainable.
  (c) The borrower/person against whom measures
under  Section 13(4)  of the Act are likely to be taken,
cannot be denied to know the reason why his
application or objections have not been accepted,
as a fulfilment of the requirement of reasonableness
and fairness in dealing with the same.
  (d) One of the reasons for providing procedure
under  Section 13(4)  read with Rule 8 for taking
possession is that the borrower should have a clear
notice before the date and time of sale/transfer of
the secured assets, in order to enable him to tender
the dues of the secured creditor with all other
charges or to take a remedy under  Section 17 , at
appropriate stage.
  (e) The time of 60 days is provided after the
“measures” under  Section 13(4)  have been taken so
as to enable the borrower to approach DRT and in
such an eventuality, the DRT shall have a
jurisdiction to pass any order/interim order, may be
subject to conditions, on the application under
 Section 17(1)  of the Act.
  (f) The scheme of relevant provisions of the Act and
the Rules shows that the Bank/FIs have been
conferred with powers to take physical (actual)
possession of the secured assets without
interference of the Court and the only remedy open
to the borrower is to approach DRT challenging
such an action/measure and seeking appropriate
relief, including restoration of possession, even after
transfer of the secured assets by way of sale/lease,
on the ground that the procedure for taking
possession or dispossessing the borrower was not
in accordance with the provisions of the Act/Rules.
                                                            3 
 (g) If the dues of the secured creditor together with
all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them
are tendered to them (secured creditors) before the
date fixed for sale or transfer, the assets shall not be
sold or transferred and in such an eventuality,
possession can also be restored to the borrower.
  (h) If the possession is taken before confirmation of
sale, it cannot be stated that the right of the
borrower to get the dispute adjudicated upon is
defeated. The borrower&#x27;s right to get back
possession even after the sale remains intact or
stands recognised under the scheme of the
provisions of the Act.
  (i) The borrower is not entitled to challenge the
reasons communicated or likely measure, to be
taken by the secured creditor under  Section 13(4)  of
the Act, unless his right to approach DRT, as
provided for under  Section 17(1) , matures. The
borrower gets all the opportunities, at different
stages, either to clear the dues or to challenge the
measures under  Section 13(4)  or even to challenge
the reasons rejecting his objections/not accepting
the objections, after the measures under  Section
13(4)  have been taken.
  (j) While the banks have been vested with stringent
powers for recovery of their dues, safeguards have
also been provided for rectifying any error or
wrongful use of such powers by vesting DRT with
authority, after conducting an adjudication into the
matters, to declare any such action invalid and also
to restore even though the possession may have
been made over to the transferee.
  (k) The safeguards provided under the scheme
make it further clear that if the Bank/FIs proceeds to
take actual possession of the assets that cannot be
stalled by the interference of a Court.
 
                                                            4 
      (l) If DRT after examining the facts and
     circumstances of the case and on the basis of
     evidence produced by the parties, comes to the
     conclusion that any of the measures referred to in
      Section 13(4) , taken by the secured creditor is not in
     accordance with the provisions of the Act, it may by
     order declare that the recourse taken to any one or
     more measures is invalid and restore possession to
     the borrower.
       (m) Any transfer of secured asset after taking
     possession thereof by the secured creditor shall vest
     in the transferee all rights in, or in relation to the
     secured asset as if the transfer had been made by
     the owner of such secured assets.
       (n) No remedy under  Section 17(1)  can be taken by
     the borrower unless he loses actual (physical)
     possession of the secured assets. In other words,
     before losing actual possession or unless the
     secured creditor obtains physical possession of the
     secured asset under  Section 13(4) , it is not open to
     the borrower to take a remedy under  Section 17(1) 
     of the Act.”

The court then went on to hold:
 
      “31.  Section 13(4)  of the Act provides that if the
     borrower fails to discharge his liability within the
     period prescribed under  Section 13(2) , the secured
     creditor can take recourse to one of the measures,
     such as taking possession of the secured assets,
     including the right to transfer by way of lease,
     assignment or sale for realising the secured asset.
     From the language of this provision, it is further clear
     that taking measure under  Section 13(4)(a)  would
     mean taking actual (physical) possession, and if we
     do not read it in the said provision to say so, the
     right and power of the secured creditor to transfer
     the assets by way of lease, assignment or sale for
                                                                 5 
realizing the secured assets, as provided for therein,
would render redundant. In other words, putting
such an interpretation on the language of  Section
13(4)  of the Act would be atrocious and would
defeat the very objective of bringing the legislation.
It is, therefore, not possible to hold that taking
“measures” under  Section 13(4)(a)  also means
taking only “symbolic possession” and not “physical
possession”. We record further reasons to say so in
following paragraph. From the scheme of  Section
13(4)  and  Sections 14  and  17  of the Act and the
relevant Rules 8 and 9 of the Rules, it appears to us
that unless physical possession is taken, the
measure, contemplated under  Section 13(4) , cannot
be stated to have been taken.
  31.1. One of the rights conferred on a secured
creditor is to transfer by way of lease, the secured
asset, possession or management whereof has
been taken under clauses (a) or (b) of sub-section
(4) of  Section 13 . We have already held that sale or
assignment of the secured assets could only be
undertaken if actual physical possession has been
taken over by the bank/FI’s. If we pose a question
whether right to transfer the secured assets by way
of lease could be exercised without taking actual
physical possession of the secured asset or
management of the business of the borrower, our
answer would be obviously in the negative.
  31.2. The word ‘lease’ has not been defined under
the Act, but it has been used in the Act in the same
sense as under the  Transfer of Property Act, 1882 .
Thereunder, Section 105 defines lease as “transfer
of a right to enjoy such property, made for a certain
time, express or implied, or in perpetuity, in
consideration of a price paid or promised, or of
money, a share of crops, service or any other thing
of value, to be rendered periodically or on specified
occasions to the transferor by the transferee, who
                                                          6 
accepts the transfer on such terms. Lease is a
contract between the lessor and the lessee for the
possession and profits of land, etc. on one side and
the recompense by rent or other consideration on
the other. The estate transferred to the lessee is
called the leasehold. The estate remaining in the
lessor is called the reversion.
   31.3. The absolute owner, who is under no personal
incapacity can grant lease for any term he pleases.
However, the limited owner like a tenant for life can
grant lease but it would not endure beyond his
death. The Supreme Court in  Associated Hotels of
India Ltd. v. R.N. Kapoor , AIR 1959 SC 1262, while
making a distinction between lease and license
observed thus:—
    “A lease is a transfer of an interest in land.
    The interested transferred is called the
    leasehold interest. The lessor parts with his
    right to enjoy the property during the term
    of the lease, and it follows from it that the
    lessee gets that right to the exclusion of the
    lessor. 
      Under S. 52 if a document gives only a
    right to use the property in a particular way
    or under certain terms while it remains in
    possession and control of the owner
    thereof, it will be a licence. The legal
    possession, therefore, continues to be with
    the owner of the property, but the licensee
    is permitted to make use of the permissive
    for a particular purpose. But for the
    permission, his occupation would be
    unlawful. It does not create in his favour
    any estate or interest in the property. There
    is, therefore, clear distinction between the
    two concepts.”


                                                         7 
31.4. One of the essential indicia of lease is parting
of exclusive possession by the lessor to the lessee
with conferment of reciprocal right in the lessee to
protect his possession during subsistence of the
lease to the exclusion of the lessor. Although in
some cases, a licensee may also be given exclusive
possession of a property, but as observed above,
parting of exclusive possession to the lessee is
a sine qua non for creating a valid lease. Thus,
where a person is not in physical possession of a
property nor in a position to deliver physical
possession in future, he is incompetent to create a
valid lease. The reason being that he is not in a
position to confer upon the lessee the right to enjoy
the property to the exclusion of the lessor and
everyone else.
  31.5. It thus necessarily follow that the ultimate
object of taking possession of the secured asset or
management of the business of the borrower would
not be achieved unless the secured creditor is in a
position to further exercise his right to transfer the
same, inter alia, by way of lease or sale, which could
be possible only if physical (actual) possession has
been taken over and not constructive or symbolic
possession. The language of  Section 13(6)  also
supports our view. Thus, while there is no bar in first
taking symbolic possession of the secured assets,
but it is implicit in sub-section (4) of  Section 13  that
the secured creditor has to thereafter proceed to
take physical (actual) possession in order to
exercise its right to transfer by way of lease,
assignment or sale.”
xxx xxx xxx
“34. Thus, the scheme of the provisions of  Sections
13  and  17  of the Act, read with Rules 8 and 9 of the
Rules, would show that the “measure” taken under
 Section 13(4)(a)  read with Rule 8 would not be
complete unless actual (physical) possession of the
                                                            8 
secured assets is taken by the Bank/Financial
Institutions. In our opinion, taking measure under
 Section 13(4)  means either taking actual/physical
possession under clause (a) of sub-section (4) of
 Section 13  or any other measure under other
clauses of this Section and not taking steps to take
possession or making unsuccessful attempt to take
measure under  Section 13(4)  of the Act. Similarly,
following the procedure laid down under  Section 14 
and/or Rules 8 and 9, where the Bank meets with
resistance, would only mean taking steps to seek
possession under  Section 13(4)(a)  and the
“measure” under sub-section (4)(a) of  Section 13 
would stand concluded only when actual/physical
possession is taken or the borrower loses
actual/physical possession. It is at this stage alone
or thereafter, the borrower can take recourse to the
provisions of  Section 17(1)  of the Act. The transfer
of possession is an action. Mere declaration of
possession by a notice, in itself, cannot amount to
transfer of possession, more particularly where such
a notice meets with resistance. When the
possession is taken by one party, other party also
loses it. In the present case, adversial possession in
being claimed by the secured creditor against the
borrower. It is not possible that both will have
possession over the secured assets. The
possession of the secured creditor would only come
into place with the dispossession of the borrower.
We may also observe that in a securitisation
application under  Section 17(1) , the borrower will
have to make a categoric statement that he lost
possession or he has been dispossessed and pray
for possession.
  35. Issuance of possession notice, as observed
earlier, gives borrower and the public in general an
intimation that the secured creditor has taken
possession of the property and at that stage, it is

                                                          9 
quite possible, may be in view of resistance or if the
Banks chooses to take only symbolic possession, to
state that the secured creditor has taken
symbolic/constructive possession and not physical
possession, but that by itself would not entitle the
borrower to raise challenge under  Section 17(1)  of
the Act, as held by the Supreme Court in Noble
Kumar (supra). Unless the borrower loses actual
(physical) possession, he cannot take recourse to
provisions of  Section 17(1) . Even while taking steps
under  Section 13(4)  of the Act read with Rule 8 of
the Rules, in a given case, the bank may not
physically dispossess the borrower and wait till it
takes steps to conduct actual sale/auction of the
secured assets i.e. till he issues notice under Rule
8(6) of the Rules. Even that by itself, from the
scheme of the Act and the Rules, in the backdrop of
the objective of the Act, in our opinion, does not
confer any right to take recourse to  Section 17(1) .
The borrower can file securitisation application
under  Section 17(1)  only when he physically loses
possession.”
xxx xxx xxx
“40. We are, therefore, of the firm and considered
opinion that taking “symbolic possession” or
issuance of possession notice under Appendix IV of
the Rules, meeting with any resistance, cannot be
treated as “measure”/s taken under  Section 13(4)  of
the Act and, therefore, the borrower at that stage
cannot file an application under  Section 17(1)  before
DRT. In other words, a securitisation application
under  Section 17(1)  of the Act is maintainable only
when actual/physical possession is taken by the
secured      creditor   or   the   borrower      loses
actual/physical possession of the secured assets.
Once the right to approach DRT matures and
securitisation application under  Section 17(1)  is filed
by the borrower, it is open to DRT to deal with the
                                                           10 
     same on merits and pass appropriate orders in
     accordance with law. Thus, the question referred to
     for our consideration stands answered in terms of
     this judgment. The judgment of this Court in Aum
     Jewels (supra), in our opinion, does not enunciate
     the correct law.”


   3.    Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Advocate,

appearing on behalf of the appellants, has placed before us all

the relevant sections under the  SARFAESI Act  as well as the

relevant rules under the 2002 Rules. He has referred to the

Statement of Objects and Reasons of both the original Act as

well as the Amendment Act made in 2004 pursuant to a

judgment of this Court in  Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of

India , (2004) 4 SCC 311 (“Mardia Chemicals”). According to

Shri Kaul, the scheme of  section 13  is that a notice of default

once served under  section 13(2)  of the Act may call upon the

borrower to discharge in full his liability to the secured creditor

within 60 days from the date of notice, failing which the secured

creditor shall be entitled to exercise all or any of the rights

under sub-section (4) of  section 13 . He relied upon  section

13 (3-A) which made it clear that even though reasons are

communicated under the said sub-section, since no measures
                                                                       11 
were actually taken under  section 13(4) , there is no right at that

stage for the borrower to prefer an application to the Debts

Recovery Tribunal under  section 17  of the Act. According to the

learned Senior Advocate,  section 13(4)(a)  makes it clear that

“possession” of the secured assets of the borrower may be

taken under this provision. Obviously, such possession is to be

taken under the rules framed under the Act. Rule 8(1) makes it

clear that possession is taken under the 2002 Rules by

delivering a possession notice prepared in the form contained

in Appendix IV to the rules, and by affixing the notice on the

outer door or at such conspicuous place of the property. Once

this is done, and the possession notice is published in two

leading newspapers under sub-rule (2), the form contained in

Appendix IV makes it clear that notice is given to the public in

general that possession has been taken in exercise of powers

contained under  section 13(4)  of the Act read with rule 8 of the

2002 Rules. As soon as this takes place, according to Shri

Kaul, since “symbolic possession” has been so taken, the right

of the borrower to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal for

relief under  section 17  gets crystallized. He also relied upon
                                                                      12 
sub-rule (3) to argue that possession may be taken under this

sub-rule which is “actual” as opposed to “symbolic” possession

under sub-rule (1). According to the learned Senior Advocate,

the moment possession is taken either under rule 8(1) or under

rule 8(3),  section 13(6)  gets attracted thereby making it clear

that a transfer of secured asset, after taking such possession,

shall vest in the transferee all rights in, or in relation to, the

secured asset transferred as if the transfer had been made by

the owner of such secured asset. According to Shri Kaul, after

symbolic possession is taken under rule 8(1), rules 8(5) to 8(8)

and rule 9 can then be followed in order to effect sale of

property of which symbolic possession has been taken. Shri

Kaul attacked the judgment of the Full Bench, stating that the

conclusion of the Full Bench that the borrower would have to

wait until actual physical possession of the secured asset is

taken would create great hardship in that a running business of

the borrower would be taken over without the borrower being

able to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal, and would have

to wait until after the sale takes place to recover possession

under  section 17(3) , even if he is able to show that the steps
                                                                      13 
taken by the secured creditor are in violation of the provisions

of the Act. Thus, if symbolic possession is taken contrary to

 section 13(2)  prior to 60 days from the date of the notice

mentioned therein, all borrowers would have to wait until

physical possession is taken and/or a sale notice is issued to

get back their running business after the business is brought to

a grinding halt. This could not possibly have been the intention

of the legislature. 
 

 4.    Shri C.U. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on

behalf of respondent no. 2, took us through the statutory

provisions and the 2002 Rules and argued that the High Court

may have gone beyond what was argued by his predecessor

before the High Court. Shri Singh emphasised that his limited

argument before this Court is that the stage of symbolic

possession is not a stage at which any prejudice is caused to

the borrower as he may continue to run his business.  Section

13(6)  does not come in at this stage at all, and  section 13(13) ,

which interdicts a borrower after receipt of a notice under

 section 13(2)  to transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise,

                                                                    14 
other than in the ordinary course of business, any of his

secured assets without prior written consent of the secured

creditor, is the only restraint that continues to attach after

symbolic possession is taken. According to him, as no prejudice

is caused to the borrower at this stage, it is clear that

“possession” spoken of in  section 13(4)  can only mean actual

physical possession. This becomes clear on a reading of

 section 13(4)(c)  which makes it clear that a manager can only

manage the secured assets the possession of which has been

taken over by the secured creditor, if actual physical possession

has been parted with. According to the learned Senior

Advocate, therefore, the object of the Act will be defeated if a

debtor can approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal at such

stage when no prejudice is caused to him, thereby rendering

what is statutorily granted to a creditor futile. He relied upon

observations in various Supreme Court judgments to buttress

his stand that it is only at the stage of actual physical

possession that an application can be filed under  section 17 

and not before.
 

                                                                     15 
 5.   Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on

behalf of the respondents in Civil Appeal arising out of SLP(C)

No.12841 of 2018, went on to argue that all the sub-clauses in

 section 13(4)  must be construed together. If that is done, it is

clear that under sub-clauses (b) and (c), management and

possession must physically be taken over. Therefore, under

sub-clause (a), the expression “possession” must also mean

actual physical possession. According to the learned Senior

Advocate, the measures taken under  section 13  must also be

read with  sections 14  and  15 . It is clear that under  section 14 ,

actual physical possession is to be handed over by the Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate or the District Magistrate to the secured

creditor, and under  section 15 , management of the business

has actually to be taken over as two managements cannot

possibly continue at the same time. Read in this light, the

scheme of the Act, therefore, is clear and it becomes equally

clear that only actual physical possession is referred to in

 section 13(4)(a)  before a  section 17  application can be filed.
 
 He also referred to  section 17(3)  to further argue that

restoration of possession of secured assets could only refer to
                                                                     16 
restoration of actual physical possession thereby strengthening

his interpretation of  sections 13  and  17  of the Act. According to

him, under  section 19 , compensation is also payable where

possession taken is not in accordance with the provisions of the

Act and 2002 Rules, again making it clear that when the Court

or Tribunal directs the secured creditor to return such secured

asset to the borrowers, compensation may be paid. Returning

secured assets obviously would mean assets of which physical

possession has been taken. When it came to reading rules 8(1)

and 8(3) of the 2002 Rules, according to Shri Ranjit Kumar, rule

8(3) is the next step after symbolic possession is taken over

under rule 8(1), and without taking of actual physical

possession under rule 8(3), no sale can be made of any

secured assets. Like Shri C.U. Singh before him, he agreed

that the High Court had perhaps gone a little too far in its

conclusion, and that the moment any real prejudice is caused to

the borrower, the borrower can certainly approach the Tribunal.
 
 This would also include the stage at which a sale notice is

issued under rule 8.
 

                                                                     17 
 6.    Shri Ashish Dholakia, learned Advocate, appearing for the

intervenor, State Bank of India, referred to the objects of the

2002 Act and relied upon the judgment of this Court in

Standard Chartered Bank v. V. Noble Kumar &amp; Ors., (2013) 9

SCC 620 (“Noble Kumar”). He argued that if we were to grant

an opportunity to a debtor to approach the Tribunal at the stage

of symbolic possession,       there would be little difference

between the  Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial

Institutions Act, 1993  (hereinafter referred to as the “Recovery

of Debts Act”) and the  SARFAESI Act , and thus, we would

destroy the very object for which the  SARFAESI Act  was

enacted, namely, so that banks could recover their debts by

selling properties outside the court process, something that the

Recovery of Debts Act did not envisage. He also referred to and

relied upon  section 3  of the Transfer of Property Act for the

definition of “a person is said to have notice” and Explanation II

in particular, which referred to actual possession. According to

him therefore, the correct stage would be the stage at which

actual physical possession has been taken, upon which a


                                                                      18 
debtor may then approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal under

 section 17 .
 
 7.    Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we may first

set out the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the 2002 Act.
 
 The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the 2002 Act read

as follows:
 
      “Statement of Objects and Reasons.—The
     financial sector has been one of the key drivers in
     India&#x27;s efforts to achieve success in rapidly
     developing its economy. While the banking industry
     in India is progressively complying with the
     international prudential norms and accounting
     practices there are certain areas in which the
     banking and financial sector do not have a level
     playing field as compared to other participants in the
     financial markets in the world. There is no legal
     provision for facilitating securitisation of financial
     assets of banks and financial institutions. Further,
     unlike international banks, the banks and financial
     institutions in India do not have power to take
     possession of securities and sell them. Our existing
     legal framework relating to commercial transactions
     has not kept pace with the changing commercial
     practices and financial sector reforms. This has
     resulted in slow pace of recovery of defaulting loans
     and mounting levels of non-performing assets of
     banks and financial institutions. Narasimham
     Committee I and II and Andhyarujina Committee
     constituted by the Central Government for the
     purpose of examining banking sector reforms have
     considered the need for changes in the legal system
     in respect of these areas. These Committees, inter
     alia, have suggested enactment of a new legislation
                                                                    19 
for securitisation and empowering banks and
financial institutions to take possession of the
securities and to sell them without the intervention of
the court. Acting on these suggestions, the
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated on the 21st June,
2002 to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of
financial assets and enforcement of security interest
and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto. The provisions of the Ordinance would
enable banks and financial institutions to realise
long-term assets, manage problem of liquidity, asset
liability mismatches and improve recovery by
exercising powers to take possession of securities,
sell them and reduce non-performing assets by
adopting measures for recovery or reconstruction.
  2. It is now proposed to replace the Ordinance by a
Bill, which, inter alia, contains provisions of the
Ordinance to provide for—
      (a)   registration  and    regulation   of
    securitisation companies or reconstruction
    companies by the Reserve Bank of India;
      (b) facilitating securitisation of financial
    assets of banks and financial institutions
    with or without the benefit of underlying
    securities;
      (c) facilitating easy transferability of
    financial assets by the securitisation
    company or reconstruction company to
    acquire financial assets of banks and
    financial institutions by issue of debentures
    or bonds or any other security in the nature
    of a debenture;
      (d) empowering securitisation companies
    or reconstruction companies to raise funds

                                                           20 
by issue of security receipts to qualified
institutional buyers;
  (e) facilitating reconstruction of financial
assets acquired by exercising powers of
enforcement of securities or change of
management or other powers which are
proposed to be conferred on the banks and
financial institutions;
  (f) declaration of any securitisation
company or reconstruction company
registered with the Reserve Bank of India
as a public financial institution for the
purpose of  Section 4-A  of the Companies
Act, 1956;
  (g) defining “security interest” as any type
of security including mortgage and charge
on immovable properties given for due
repayment of any financial assistance
given by any bank or financial institution;
  (h) empowering banks and financial
institutions to take possession of securities
given for financial assistance and sell or
lease the same or take over management
in the event of default, i.e. classification of
the borrower&#x27;s account as non-performing
asset in accordance with the directions
given or guidelines issued by the Reserve
Bank of India from time to time;
  (i) the rights of a secured creditor to be
exercised by one or more of its officers
authorised in this behalf in accordance with
the rules made by the Central Government;
  (j) an appeal against the action of any bank
or financial institution to the concerned
Debts Recovery Tribunal and a second


                                                   21 
         appeal to the Appellate Debts Recovery
         Tribunal;
           (k) setting-up or causing to be set-up a
         Central     Registry   by   the    Central
         Government for the purpose of registration
         of transactions relating to securitisation,
         asset reconstruction and creation of
         security interest;
           (l) application of the proposed legislation
         initially to banks and financial institutions
         and empowerment of the Central
         Government to extend the application of
         the proposed legislation to non-banking
         financial companies and other entities;
           (m) non-application of the proposed
         legislation to security interests in
         agricultural lands, loans not exceeding
         Rupees One lakh and cases where eighty
         per cent of the loans are repaid by the
         borrower.
       3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.”

 Section 13  with which we are concerned reads as follows:
 
      “13. Enforcement of security interest.—(1)
     Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 69 or
      Section 69-A  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4
     of 1882), any security interest created in favour of
     any secured creditor may be enforced, without the
     intervention of the court or tribunal, by such creditor
     in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
     (2) Where any borrower, who is under a liability to a
     secured creditor under a security agreement, makes
     any default in repayment of secured debt or any
     instalment thereof, and his account in respect of
     such debt is classified by the secured creditor as

                                                                22 
                non-performing asset, then, the secured creditor
                may require the borrower by notice in writing to
                discharge in full his liabilities to the secured creditor
                within sixty days from the date of notice failing which
                the secured creditor shall be entitled to exercise all
                or any of the rights under sub-section (4):
                  1 
                  [Provided that—
                         (i) the requirement of classification of
                       secured debt as non-performing asset
                       under this sub-section shall not apply to a
                       borrower who has raised funds through
                       issue of debt securities; and
                         (ii) in the event of default, the debenture
                       trustee shall be entitled to enforce security
                       interest in the same manner as provided
                       under this section with such modifications
                       as may be necessary and in accordance
                       with the terms and conditions of security
                       documents executed in favour of the
                       debenture trustee;]
                (3) The notice referred to in sub-section (2) shall
                give details of the amount payable by the borrower
                and the secured assets intended to be enforced by
                the secured creditor in the event of non-payment of
                secured debts by the borrower.
                  2 
                  [(3-A) If, on receipt of the notice under sub-section
                (2), the borrower makes any representation or raises
                any objection, the secured creditor shall consider
                such representation or objection and if the secured
                creditor comes to the conclusion that such
                representation or objection is not acceptable or
                tenable, he shall communicate 3[within fifteen days]
                of receipt of such representation or objection the

 1 
  Ins. by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 11(i)  (w.e.f. 1-9-2016).
  2 
   Ins. by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 8  (w.r.e.f. 11-11-2004).
  3 
   Subs. for “within one week” by Act 1 of 2013,  S. 5(a)  (w.e.f. 15-1-2013).
                                                                                23 
                   reasons for non-acceptance of the representation or
                  objection to the borrower :
                         Provided that the reasons so communicated or
                  the likely action of the secured creditor at the stage
                  of communication of reasons shall not confer any
                  right upon the borrower to prefer an application to
                  the Debts Recovery Tribunal under  Section 17  or the
                  Court of District Judge under Section 17-A.]
                  (4) In case the borrower fails to discharge his liability
                  in full within the period specified in sub-section (2),
                  the secured creditor may take recourse to one or
                  more of the following measures to recover his
                  secured debt, namely:—
                           (a) take possession of the secured assets
                         of the borrower including the right to
                         transfer by way of lease, assignment or
                         sale for realising the secured asset;
                           4 
                           [(b) take over the management of the
                         business of the borrower including the right
                         to transfer by way of lease, assignment or
                         sale for realising the secured asset:
                               Provided that the right to transfer by
                         way of lease, assignment or sale shall be
                         exercised only where the substantial part of
                         the business of the borrower is held as
                         security for the debt:
                                 Provided further that where the
                         management of whole, of the business or
                         part of the business is severable, the
                         secured creditor shall take over the
                         management of such business of the
                         borrower which is relatable to the security
                         for the debt;]

 4 
    Subs. by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 8  (w.r.e.f. 11-11-2004). Prior to substitution it read as:
                    “(b) take over the management of the secured assets of the borrower including
           the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale and realise the secured asset;”
                                                                                                        24 
                           (c) appoint any person (hereafter referred
                         to as the manager), to manage the secured
                         assets the possession of which has been
                         taken over by the secured creditor;
                           (d) require at any time by notice in writing,
                         any person who has acquired any of the
                         secured assets from the borrower and from
                         whom any money is due or may become
                         due to the borrower, to pay the secured
                         creditor, so much of the money as is
                         sufficient to pay the secured debt.
                     (5) Any payment made by any person referred to in
                   clause (d) of sub-section (4) to the secured creditor
                   shall give such person a valid discharge as if he has
                   made payment to the borrower.
                     5 
                     [(5-A) Where the sale of an immovable property, for
                   which a reserve price has been specified, has been
                   postponed for want of a bid of an amount not less
                   than such reserve price, it shall be lawful for any
                   officer of the secured creditor, if so authorised by the
                   secured creditor in this behalf, to bid for the
                   immovable property on behalf of the secured
                   creditor at any subsequent sale.
                     (5-B) Where the secured creditor, referred to in sub-
                   section (5-A), is declared to be the purchaser of the
                   immovable property at any subsequent sale, the
                   amount of the purchase price shall be adjusted
                   towards the amount of the claim of the secured
                   creditor for which the auction of enforcement of
                   security interest is taken by the secured creditor,
                   under sub-section (4) of  Section 13 .
                     (5-C) The provisions of  Section 9  of the Banking
                   Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) shall, as far as
                   may be, apply to the immovable property acquired
                   by secured creditor under sub-section (5-A).]

 5 
    Ins. by Act 1 of 2013,  S. 5(b)  (w.e.f. 15-1-2013)
                                                                               25 
    (6) Any transfer of secured asset after taking
    possession thereof or take over of management
    under sub-section (4), by the secured creditor or by
    the manager on behalf of the secured creditor shall
    vest in the transferee all rights in, or in relation to,
    the secured asset transferred as if the transfer had
    been made by the owner of such secured asset.
    xxx xxx xxx
    (13) No borrower shall, after receipt of notice
    referred to in sub-section (2), transfer by way of
    sale, lease or otherwise (other than in the ordinary
    course of his business) any of his secured assets
    referred to in the notice, without prior written consent
    of the secured creditor.”


 Section 14(1)  of the Act reads as follows:
 
     “14. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District
    Magistrate to assist secured creditor in taking
    possession of secured asset.—(1) Where the
    possession of any secured assets is required to be
    taken by the secured creditor or if any of the
    secured asset is required to be sold or transferred
    by the secured creditor under the provisions of this
    Act, the secured creditor may, for the purpose of
    taking possession or control of any such secured
    assets, request, in writing, the Chief Metropolitan
    Magistrate or the District Magistrate within whose
    jurisdiction any such secured asset or other
    documents relating thereto may be situated or
    found, to take possession thereof, and the Chief
    Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, the
    District Magistrate shall, on such request being
    made to him—
           (a) take possession of such asset and
         documents relating thereto; and

                                                                26 
                        (b) forward such asset and documents to
                      the secured creditor:
                  xxx xxx xxx”


          Section 15(1)  of the Act reads as follows:
 
                 “15. Manner and effect of takeover of
                management.—(1) 6[When the management of
                business of a borrower is taken over by a 7[asset
                reconstruction company] under clause (a) of  Section
                9  or, as the case may be, by a secured creditor
                under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of  Section 13 ],
                the secured creditor may, by publishing a notice in a
                newspaper published in English language and in a
                newspaper published in an Indian language in
                circulation in the place where the principal office of
                the borrower is situated, appoint as many persons
                as it thinks fit—
                        (a) in a case in which the borrower is a
                      company as defined in the Companies Act,
                      1956 (1 of 1956), to be the directors of that
                      borrower in accordance with the provisions
                      of that Act; or
                        (b) in any            other case, to be                  the
                      administrator         of the business of                 the
                      borrower.
                  xxx xxx xxx”


          Section 17  of the Act reads as follows:
 
                 “8[17. Application against measures to recover
                secured debts].—(1) Any person (including
 6 
  Subs. for “When the management of business of a borrower is taken over by a secured creditor”
by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 9  (w.r.e.f. 11-11-2004).
  7 
   Subs. for “securitisation company or a reconstruction company” by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 3(i)  (w.e.f.
1-9-2016).
  8 
   Subs. for “Right to appeal” by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 14(i)  (w.e.f. 1-9-2016).
                                                                                                        27 
                 borrower,) aggrieved by any of the measures
                referred to in sub-section (4) of  Section 13  taken by
                the secured creditor or his authorised officer under
                this chapter, 9[may make an application along with
                such fee, as may be prescribed,] to the Debts
                Recovery Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter
                within forty-five days from the date on which such
                measure had been taken:
                       [Provided that different fees may be prescribed
                        10 

                for making the application by the borrower and the
                person other than the borrower.]
                      [Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is
                        11 

                hereby declared that the communication of the
                reasons to the borrower by the secured creditor for
                not having accepted his representation or objection
                or the likely action of the secured creditor at the
                stage of communication of reasons to the borrower
                shall not entitle the person (including borrower) to
                make an application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal
                under sub-section (1) of  section 17 .]
                 12 
                  [(1-A) An application under sub-section (1) shall be
                filed before the Debts Recovery Tribunal within the
                local limits of whose jurisdiction—
                         (a) the cause of action, wholly or in part,
                       arises;
                         (b) where the secured asset is located; or
                         (c) the branch or any other office of a bank
                       or financial institution is maintaining an
                       account in which debt claimed is
                       outstanding for the time being.]



 9 
  Subs. for “may prefer an appeal” by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 10  (w.r.e.f. 21-6-2002).
  10 
    Ins. by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 10  (w.r.e.f. 21-6-2002).
  11 
    Ins. by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 10  (w.r.e.f. 11-11-2004).
  12 
    Ins. by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 14(ii)  (w.e.f. 1-9-2016).
                                                                                      28 
                  [(2) The Debts Recovery Tribunal shall consider
                 13 

                whether any of the measures referred to in sub-
                section (4) of  Section 13  taken by the secured
                creditor for enforcement of security are in
                accordance with the provisions of this Act and the
                rules made thereunder.
                   [(3) If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal, after
                 14 

                examining the facts and circumstances of the case
                and evidence produced by the parties, comes to the
                conclusion that any of the measures referred to in
                sub-section (4) of  section 13 , taken by the secured
                creditor are not in accordance with the provisions of
                this Act and the rules made thereunder, and require
                restoration of the management or restoration of
                possession, of the secured assets to the borrower or
                other aggrieved person, it may, by order,—
                        (a) declare the recourse to any one or
                      more measures referred to in sub-section
                      (4) of  section 13  taken by the secured
                      creditor as invalid; and
 13 
   Subs. for sub-sections (2) and (3) by Act 30 of 2004,  S. 10  (w.r.e.f. 11-11-2004). Prior to
substitution sub-sections (2) and (3) read as:
                    “(2) Where an appeal is preferred by a borrower, such appeal shall not be
         entertained by the Debts Recovery Tribunal unless the borrower has deposited with the
         Debts Recovery Tribunal seventy-five per cent of the amount claimed in the notice
         referred to in sub-section (2) of  Section 13 :
                    Provided that the Debts Recovery Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded in
         writing, waive or reduce the amount to be deposited under this section.
                    (3) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Debts Recovery Tribunal shall, as
         far as may be, dispose of the appeal in accordance with the provisions of the  Recovery of
         Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993  (51 of 1993) and rules made
         thereunder.”
 14 
   Subs. by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 14(iii)  (w.e.f. 1-9-2016). Prior to substitution it read as:
                    “(3) If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal, after examining the facts and circumstances
         of the case and evidence produced by the parties, comes to the conclusion that any of
         the measures referred to in sub-section (4) of  Section 13 , taken by the secured creditor
         are not in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, and
         require restoration of the management of the business to the borrower or restoration of
         possession of the secured assets to the borrower, it may by order, declare the recourse to
         any one or more measures referred to in sub-section (4) of  Section 13  taken by the
         secured creditors as invalid and restore the possession of the secured assets to the
         borrower or restore the management of the business to the borrower, as the case may
         be, and pass such order as it may consider appropriate and necessary in relation to any
         of the recourse taken by the secured creditor under sub-section (4) of  Section 13 .”.
                                                                                                        29 
                           (b) restore the possession of secured
                          assets or management of secured assets
                          to the borrower or such other aggrieved
                          person, who has made an application
                          under sub-section (1), as the case may be;
                          and
                            (c) pass such other direction as it may
                          consider appropriate and necessary in
                          relation to any of the recourse taken by the
                          secured creditor under sub-section (4) of
                           section 13 .]
                   (4) If, the Debts Recovery Tribunal declares the
                   recourse taken by a secured creditor under sub-
                     section (4) of  Section 13 , is in accordance with the
                   provisions of this Act and the rules made
                   thereunder,     then,   notwithstanding      anything
                   contained in any other law for the time being in
                   force, the secured creditor shall be entitled to take
                   recourse to one or more of the measures specified
                   under sub-section (4) of  Section 13  to recover his
                   secured debt.
                     15 
                      [(4-A) Where—
                            (i) any person, in an application under sub-
                          section (1), claims any tenancy or
                          leasehold rights upon the secured asset,
                          the Debt Recovery Tribunal, after
                          examining the facts of the case and
                          evidence produced by the parties in
                          relation to such claims shall, for the
                          purposes of enforcement of security
                          interest, have the jurisdiction to examine
                          whether lease or tenancy,—
                                   (a) has expired or stood determined;
                                   or


 15 
     Ins. by Act 44 of 2016,  S. 14(iv)  (w.e.f. 1-9-2016).
                                                                             30 
          (b) is contrary to Section 65-A of the
         Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of
         1882); or
           (c) is contrary to terms of mortgage; or
           (d) is created after the issuance of
         notice of default and demand by the
         Bank under sub-section (2) of Section
         13 of the Act; and
      (ii) the Debt Recovery Tribunal is satisfied
    that tenancy right or leasehold rights
    claimed in secured asset falls under the
    sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) or sub-
    clause (c) or sub-clause (d) of clause (i),
    then notwithstanding anything to the
    contrary contained in any other law for the
    time being in force, the Debt Recovery
    Tribunal may pass such order as it deems
    fit in accordance with the provisions of this
    Act.]
(5) Any application made under sub-section (1) shall
be dealt with by the Debts Recovery Tribunal as
expeditiously as possible and disposed of within
sixty days from the date of such application:
       Provided that the Debts Recovery Tribunal may,
from time to time, extend the said period for reasons
to be recorded in writing, so, however, that the total
period of pendency of the application with the Debts
Recovery Tribunal, shall not exceed four months
from the date of making of such application made
under sub-section (1).
  (6) If the application is not disposed of by the Debts
Recovery Tribunal within the period of four months
as specified in sub-section (5), any party to the
application may make an application, in such form
as may be prescribed, to the Appellate Tribunal for
directing the Debts Recovery Tribunal for
                                                          31 
               expeditious disposal of the application pending
               before the Debts Recovery Tribunal and the
               Appellate Tribunal may, on such application, make
               an order for expeditious disposal of the pending
               application by the Debts Recovery Tribunal.
               (7) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Debts
               Recovery Tribunal shall, as far as may be, dispose
               of the application in accordance with the provisions
               of the  Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
               Financial Institutions Act, 1993  (51 of 1993) and the
               rules made thereunder.]”


         Rule 8 of the 2002 Rules reads as follows:
 
                “8. Sale of immovable secured assets.—(1)
               Where the secured asset is an immovable property,
               the authorised officer shall take or cause to be taken
               possession, by delivering a possession notice
               prepared as nearly as possible in Appendix IV to
               these rules, to the borrower and by affixing the
               possession notice on the outer door or at such
               conspicuous place of the property.
                 (2) 16[The possession notice as referred to in sub-
                 rule (1) shall also be published, as soon as possible
               but in any case not later than seven days from the
               date of taking possession, in two leading
               newspapers], one in vernacular language having
               sufficient circulation in that locality, by the authorised
               officer.
                  [(2-A) All notices under these rules may also be
                17 

               served upon the borrower through electronic mode
               of service, in addition to the modes prescribed under
               sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) of rule 8.]

 16 
   Subs. for “The possession notice as referred to in sub-rule (1) shall also be published in two
leading newspaper” by S.O. 1837(E), dated 26-10-2007 (w.e.f. 26-10-2007).
  17 
    Ins. by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016).
                                                                                                      32 
                    (3) In the event of possession of immovable property
                   is actually taken by the authorised officer, such
                   property shall be kept in his own custody or in the
                   custody of any person authorised or appointed by
                   him, who shall take as much care of the property in
                   his custody as a owner of ordinary prudence would,
                   under the similar circumstances, take of such
                   property.
                     (4) The authorised officer shall take steps for
                   preservation and protection of secured assets and
                   insure them, if necessary, till they are sold or
                   otherwise disposed of.
                     (5) Before effecting sale of the immovable property
                   referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the authorised
                   officer shall obtain valuation of the property from an
                   approved valuer and in consultation with the
                   secured creditor, fix the reserve price of the property
                   and may sell the whole or any part of such
                   immovable secured asset by any of the following
                   methods:—
                           (a) by obtaining quotations from the
                         persons dealing with similar secured
                         assets or otherwise interested in buying the
                         such assets; or
                           (b) by inviting tenders from the public;
                          [(c) by holding public auction including
                          18 

                         through e-auction mode; or]
                           (d) by private treaty.
                     (6) the authorised officer shall serve to the borrower
                   a notice of thirty days for sale of the immovable
                   secured assets, under sub-rule (5):
                          Provided that if the sale of such secured asset
                   is being effected by either inviting tenders from the
 18 
     Subs. by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016). Prior to substitution it read as:
                    “(c) by holding public auction; or”
                                                                                                     33 
                   public or by holding public auction, the secured
                   creditor shall cause a public notice in two leading
                   newspapers one in vernacular language having
                   sufficient circulation in the locality by setting out the
                   terms of sale, which shall include,—
                           (a) the description of the immovable
                         property to be sold, including the details of
                         the encumbrances known to the secured
                         creditor;
                           (b) the secured debt for recovery of which
                         the property is to be sold;
                           (c) reserve price, below which the property
                         may not be sold;
                           (d) time and place of public auction or the
                         time after which sale by any other mode
                         shall be completed;
                           (e) depositing earnest money as may be
                         stipulated by the secured creditor;
                           (f) any other thing which the authorised
                         officer considers it material for a purchaser
                         to know in order to judge the nature and
                         value of the property.
                     (7) Every notice of sale shall be affixed on a
                   conspicuous part of the immovable property and
                   may, if the authorised officer deems it fit, put on the
                   website of the secured creditor on the Internet.
                   (8) Sale by any methods other than public auction or
                   public tender, shall be on such terms as may be
                   settled 19[between the secured creditor and the
                   proposed purchaser in writing].”


            Appendix IV to the 2002 Rules reads as follows:
 
 19 
      Subs. for “between the parties in writing” by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016).
                                                                                                         34 
                                           “APPENDIX IV
                                           [See rule 8(1)]
                                    POSSESSION NOTICE
                                   (for immovable property)
                      Whereas
                     The undersigned being the authorised officer of
                the ………..…………………. (name of the Institution)
                under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
                Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
                Interest 20[Act, 2002 (54 of 2002)] and in exercise of
                powers conferred under  Section 13(12)  read
                with 21[Rule 3] of the Security Interest (Enforcement)
                Rules, 2002 issued a demand notice dated
                ………………. calling upon the borrower Shri
                ………………..………. /M/s …………………………
                to repay the amount mentioned in the notice being
                Rs …………… (in words …………………………)
                within 60 days from the date of receipt of the said
                notice.
                         [The borrower having failed to repay the
                       22 


                amount, notice is hereby given to the borrower and
                the public in general that the undersigned has taken
                possession of the property described herein below
                in exercise of powers conferred on him under sub-
                section (4) of  Section 13  of Act read with Rule 8 of
                the Security Interest Enforcement) Rules, 2002 on
                this the …….day of ….. of the year……]
                    The borrower in particular and the public in
                general is hereby cautioned not to deal with the
                property and any dealings with the property will be
                subject to the charge of the …………..
                  …………………………. (name of the Institution) for
                an amount Rs. ……………….. and interest thereon.
  20 
    Subs. for “Ordinance” by S.O. 103(E), dated 2-2-2007 (w.e.f. 2-2-2007).
  21 
    Subs. for “Rule 9” by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016).
  22 
    Subs. by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016).
                                                                               35 
                         [The borrower’s attention is invited to
                          23 


                  provisions of sub-section (8) of  Section 13  of the
                  Act, in respect of time available, to redeem the
                  secured assets.]

                         Description of the Immovable Property

                  All that part and parcel of the property consisting
                  of Flat No. …… /Plot No. ……… In Survey No.
                  …………/City or Town Survey No. …………
                  /Khasara No. …….…………… within the
                  registration sub-district ……………………. and
                  District …………………..
 
                   Bounded:
 
                   On the North by

                  On the South by

                  On the East by

                  On the West by

                                                                               sd/-
                                                                   Authorised Officer
                  (Name of Institution)
                  Date:
                    Place:”

             8.       This Court in  Mardia Chemicals  (supra) after referring in

          detail to the provisions of the Act held: 
 
                   “48. The next safeguard available to a secured
                  borrower within the framework of the Act is to
                  approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal under
 23 
     Ins. by G.S.R. 1046(E), dt. 3-11-2016 (w.e.f. 4-11-2016).
                                                                                        36 
  Section 17  of the Act. Such a right accrues only after
measures are taken under sub-section (4) of  Section
13  of the Act.
  xxx xxx xxx
   59. We may like to observe that proceedings under
 Section 17  of the Act, in fact, are not appellate
proceedings. It seems to be a misnomer. In fact it is
the initial action which is brought before a forum as
prescribed under the Act, raising grievance against
the action or measures taken by one of the parties
to the contract. It is the stage of initial proceeding
like filing a suit in civil court. As a matter of fact
proceedings under  Section 17  of the Act are in lieu
of a civil suit which remedy is ordinarily available but
for the bar under  Section 34  of the Act in the present
case. We may refer to a decision of this Court
in  Ganga Bai v. Vijay Kumar [(1974) 2 SCC 393]
where in respect of original and appellate
proceedings a distinction has been drawn as
follows: (SCC p. 397, para 15)
      “There is a basic distinction between the
      right of suit and the right of appeal. There
      is an inherent right in every person to bring
      a suit of civil nature and unless the suit is
      barred by statute one may, at one&#x27;s peril,
      bring a suit of one&#x27;s choice. It is no answer
      to a suit, howsoever frivolous to claim, that
      the law confers no such right to sue. A suit
      for its maintainability requires no authority
      of law and it is enough that no statute bars
      the suit. But the position in regard to
      appeals is quite the opposite. The right of
      appeal inheres in no one and therefore an
      appeal for its maintainability must have the
      clear authority of law.  That explains why
      the right of appeal is described as a
      creature of statute.”
xxx xxx xxx

                                                            37 
  62. As indicated earlier, the position of the appeal
under  Section 17  of the Act is like that of a suit in the
court of the first instance under  the Code of Civil
Procedure . No doubt, in suits also it is permissible,
in given facts and circumstances and under the
provisions of the law to attach the property before a
decree is passed or to appoint a receiver and to
make a provision by way of interim measure in
respect of the property in suit. But for obtaining such
orders a case for the same is to be made out in
accordance with the relevant provisions under the
law. There is no such provision under the Act.
xxx xxx xxx
  80.  Under the Act  in consideration, we find that
before taking action a notice of 60 days is required
to be given and after the measures under  Section
13(4)  of the Act have been taken, a mechanism has
been provided under  Section 17  of the Act to
approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal. The
abovenoted provisions are for the purpose of giving
some reasonable protection to the borrower.
  Viewing the matter in the above perspective, we find
what emerges from different provisions of the Act, is
as follows:
       1. Under sub-section (2) of  Section 13  it is
     incumbent upon the secured creditor to
     serve 60 days’ notice before proceeding to
     take any of the measures as provided
     under sub-section (4) of  Section 13  of the
     Act. After service of notice, if the borrower
     raises any objection or places facts for
     consideration of the secured creditor, such
     reply to the notice must be considered with
     due application of mind and the reasons for
     not accepting the objections, howsoever
     brief they may be, must be communicated
     to the borrower. In connection with this
     conclusion we have already held a
     discussion in the earlier part of the
                                                             38 
judgment. The reasons so communicated
shall only be for the purposes of the
information/knowledge of the borrower
without giving rise to any right to approach
the Debts Recovery Tribunal under  Section
17  of the Act, at that stage.
  2. As already discussed earlier, on
measures having been taken under sub-
  section (4) of  Section 13  and before the
date of sale/auction of the property it would
be open for the borrower to file an appeal
(petition) under  Section 17  of the Act
before the Debts Recovery Tribunal.
  3. That the Tribunal in exercise of its
ancillary powers shall have jurisdiction to
pass any stay/interim order subject to the
condition as it may deem fit and proper to
impose.
  4. In view of the discussion already held in
this behalf, we find that the requirement of
deposit of 75% of the amount claimed
before entertaining an appeal (petition)
under  Section 17  of the Act is an
oppressive, onerous and arbitrary condition
against all the canons of reasonableness.
Such a condition is invalid and it is liable to
be struck down.
  5. As discussed earlier in this judgment, we
find that it will be open to maintain a civil
suit in civil court, within the narrow scope
and on the limited grounds on which they
are permissible, in the matters relating to
an English mortgage enforceable without
intervention of the court.”




                                                   39 
Close on the heels of this judgment, the 2002 Act was amended on

30.12.2004 with effect from 11.11.2004. The Statement of Objects

and Reasons for the  Amended Act  reads as under:
 
      “Statement of Objects and Reasons.— The
     Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
     Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
     2002  was enacted to regulate securitisation and
     reconstruction of financial assets and enforcement
     of security interest and for matters connected
     thereto.  The Act  enables the banks and financial
     institutions to realise long-term assets, manage
     problems of liquidity, asset liability mis-match and
     improve recovery by exercising powers to take
     possession of securities, sell them and reduce non-
     performing assets by adopting measures for
     recovery or reconstruction.  The Act  further provides
     for setting up of asset reconstruction companies
     which are empowered to take possession of secured
     assets of the borrower including the right to transfer
     by way of lease, assignment or sale and realise the
     secured assets and take over the management of
     the business of the borrower.
       2.    The Hon’ble Supreme Court, in the case of
     Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India, A.I.R. 2004
     S.C. 2371 : (2004) 4 S.C.C 311, inter alia,—
            (a)     upheld the validity of the provisions
          of the said Act except that of sub-section
          (2) of  Section 17  which was declared ultra
          vires  Article 14  of the Constitution. The
          said sub-section provides for deposit of
          seventy-five per cent. of the amount
          claimed before entertaining an appeal
          (petition) by the Debts Recovery Tribunal
          (DRT) under  Section 17 ;
 
                                                                    40 
     (b)      observed that in cases where a
    secured creditor has taken action under
    sub-section (4) of  Section 13  of the said
    Act, it would be open to borrowers to file
    appeals under  Section 17  of the Act within
    the limitation as prescribed therefor. It also
    observed that if the borrower, after service
    of notice under sub-section (2) of  Section
    13  of the said Act, raises any objection or
    places facts for consideration of the
    secured creditor, such reply to the notice
    must be considered with due application of
    mind and the reasons for not accepting the
    objections, howsoever brief that may be,
    must be communicated to the borrower.
      The reasons so communicated shall only
    be      for    the     purposes     of     the
    information/knowledge of the borrower
    without giving rise to any right to approach
    the Debts Recovery Tribunal under  Section
    17  of the Act, at that stage.
  3.    In view of the above judgment of the Hon’ble
Supreme Court and also to discourage the
borrowers to postpone the repayment of their dues
and also enable the secured creditor to speedily
recover their debts, if required, by enforcement of
security or other measures specified in sub-section
(4) of  Section 13  of the said Act, it had become
necessary to amend the provisions of the said Act.
  4.    Since the Parliament was not in session and it
was necessary to take immediate action to amend
the said Act for the above reasons, the Enforcement
of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2004 was promulgated on
the 11th November, 2004.
  5.  The said Ordinance amends the Securitisation
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
                                                        41 
 Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 , the
 Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
Institutions Act, 1993  and the  Companies Act, 1956 .
Chapter II of the Ordinance which amends the
 Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 ,—
      (a)     require the secured creditor to
    consider, in response to the notice issued
    by the secured creditor under sub-section
    (2) of  Section 13  of the said Act, any
    representation made or objection raised by
    the borrower and cast an obligation upon
    the secured creditor to communicate within
    one week of receipt of such representation
    or objection the reasons for non-
      acceptance of the representation or
    objection to the borrower and take
    possession of the secured asset only after
    reasons for not accepting the objections of
    the borrower have been communicated to
    him in writing;
      (b)     enable the borrower to make an
    application before the Debts Recovery
    Tribunal without making any deposit
    (instead of filing an appeal before the
    Debts Recovery Tribunal after depositing
    seventy-five per cent. of the amount
    claimed with the notice by the secured
    creditor);
      (c)    provides that the Debts Recovery
    Tribunal shall dispose of the application as
    expeditiously as possible and dispose of
    such application within sixty days from the
    date of such applications so that the total
    period of pendency of the application with

                                                       42 
         such Tribunal     shall   not   exceed   four
         months;
           (d)   make provision for transfer of
         pending applications to any one of the
         Debts Recovery Tribunal in certain cases;
           (e)    enables any person aggrieved by
         any order made by the Debts Recovery
         Tribunal to file an appeal to the Debts
         Recovery      Appellate     Tribunal  after
         depositing with the Appellate Tribunal fifty
         per cent. of amount of debt due from him,
         as claimed by the secured creditor or
         determined by the Debts Recovery
         Tribunal, whichever is less;
           (f)    enables the borrower residing in the
         State of Jammu and Kashmir to make an
         application to the Court of District Judge in
         that State having jurisdiction over the
         borrower and make provision for filing an
         appeal to the High Court from the order of
         the Court of District Judge;
           (g)    makes provision for validation of the
         fees levied under the said Act before the
         commencement of this Ordinance.
       xxx xxx xxx”


 The Act  was accordingly amended in accordance with the

aforesaid judgment.
 

  9.   The judgment in  Mardia Chemicals  (supra) had made it

clear in paragraph 80 that all measures having been taken


                                                             43 
under  section 13(4) , and before the date of sale auction, it

would be open for the borrower to file a petition under  section

17  of the Act. This paragraph appears to have been missed by

the Full Bench in the impugned judgment. 
 

  10.   A reading of  section 13  would make it clear that where a

default in repayment of a secured debt or any instalment

thereof is made by a borrower, the secured creditor may require

the borrower, by notice in writing, to discharge in full his

liabilities to the secured creditor within 60 days from the date of

notice. It is only when the borrower fails to do so that the

secured creditor may have recourse to the provisions contained

in  section 13(4)  of the Act.  Section 13 (3-A) was inserted by the

2004 Amendment Act, pursuant to  Mardia Chemicals  (supra),

making it clear that if on receipt of the notice under  section

13(2) , the borrower makes a representation or raises an

objection,   the   secured    creditor   is   to   consider   such

representation or objection and give reasons for non- 
 
 acceptance. The proviso to  section 13 (3-A) makes it clear that

this would not confer upon the borrower any right to prefer an

                                                                       44 
application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under  section 17  as

at this stage no action has yet been taken under  section 13(4) .
 

 11.   When we come to  section 13(4)(a) , what is clear is that

the mode of taking possession of the secured assets of the

borrower is specified by rule 8. Under  section 38  of the Act, the

Central Government may make rules to carry out the provisions

of the Act. One such rule is rule 8. Rule 8(1) makes it clear that

“the authorised officer shall take or cause to be taken

possession”. The expression “cause to be taken” only means

that the authorised officer need not himself take possession, but

may, for example, appoint an agent to do so. What is important

is that such taking of possession is effected under sub-rule (1)

of rule 8 by delivering a possession notice prepared in

accordance with Appendix IV of the 2002 Rules, and by affixing

such notice on the outer door or other conspicuous place of the

property concerned. Under sub-rule (2), such notice shall also

be published within 7 days from the date of such taking of

possession in two leading newspapers, one in the vernacular

language having sufficient circulation in the locality. This is for

                                                                       45 
the reason that when we come to Appendix IV, the borrower in

particular, and the public in general is cautioned by the said

possession notice not to deal with the property as possession

of the said property has been taken. This is for the reason that,

from this stage on, the secured asset is liable to be sold to

realise the debt owed, and title in the asset divested from the

borrower and complete title given to the purchaser, as is

mentioned in  section 13(6)  of the Act. There is, thus, a radical

change in the borrower dealing with the secured asset from this

stage. At the stage of a  section 13(2)  notice,  section 13(13) 

interdicts the borrower from transferring the secured asset

(otherwise than in the ordinary course of his business) without

prior written consent of the secured creditor. But once a

possession notice is given under rule 8(1) and 8(2) by the

secured creditor to the borrower, the borrower cannot deal with

the secured asset at all as all further steps to realise the same

are to be taken by the secured creditor under the 2002 Rules.
 

 12.    Section 19 , which is strongly relied upon by Shri Ranjit

Kumar, also makes it clear that compensation is receivable

                                                                     46 
        under  section 19  only when possession of secured assets is not

        in accordance with the provision of this Act and rules made

        thereunder.24 The scheme of  section 13(4)  read with rule 8(1)

        therefore makes it clear that the delivery of a possession notice

        together with affixation on the property and publication is one

        mode of taking “possession” under  section 13(4) . This being

        the case, it is clear that  section 13(6)  kicks in as soon as this is

        done as the expression used in  section 13(6)  is “after taking

        possession”. Also, it is clear that rule 8(5) to 8(8) also kick in as

        soon as “possession” is taken under rule 8(1) and 8(2). The

        statutory scheme, therefore, in the present case is that once

        possession is taken under rule 8(1) and 8(2) read with  section

        13(4)(a) ,  section 17  gets attracted, as this is one of the

        measures referred to in  section 13(4)  that has been taken by

        the secured creditor under Chapter III.
 

         13.     Rule 8(3) begins with the expression “in the event of”.
 
         These words make it clear that possession may be taken

        alternatively under sub-rule (3). The further expression used in
 24 
  That this is the general scheme of the Act is also clear from  section 17(2)  which states that the Debts
Recovery Tribunal, when an application is filed before it, shall consider whether any of the measures
referred to in  section 13(4)  taken by the secured creditor are in accordance with the provisions of the Act
and rules made thereunder.
                                                                                                           47 
 sub-rule (3) is “actually taken” making it clear that physical

possession is referred to by rule 8(3). Thus, whether

possession is taken under either rule 8(1) and 8(2), or under

rule 8(3), measures are taken by the secured creditor under

 section 13(4)  for the purpose of attracting  section 17(1) .
 

 14.   The argument made by the learned counsel for the

respondents that  section 13(4)(a)  has to be read in the light of

sub-clauses (b) and (c) is therefore incorrect and must be

rejected. Under sub-clause (c), a person is appointed as

manager to manage the secured assets the possession of

which has been taken over by the secured creditor only under

rule 8(3). Further, the rule of noscitur a sociis cannot apply.
 
 Sub-clause (b) speaks of taking over management of the

business of the borrower which is completely different from

taking over possession of a secured asset of the borrower.
 
 Equally, sub-clause (d) does not speak of taking over either

management or possession, but only speaks of paying the

secured creditor so much of the money as is sufficient to pay off

the secured debt. These arguments must therefore be rejected.
 
                                                                     48 
 15.   Equally fallacious is the argument that  section 13(4)  must

be read in the light of  sections 14  and  15 . There is no doubt

whatsoever that under  section 14(1) , the Magistrate takes

possession of the asset and “forwards” such asset to the

secured creditor. Equally, under  section 15  there is no doubt

that the management of the business of a borrower must

actually be taken over. These are separate and distinct modes

of exercise of powers by a secured creditor under the Act.
 
 Whereas  sections 14  and  15  have to be read by themselves,

 section 13(4)(a) , as has been held by us, has to be read with

rule 8, and this being the case, this argument must also be

rejected.
 

 16.   Yet another argument was made by the learned counsel

for the respondents that  section 17(3)  would require restoration

of possession of secured assets to the borrower, which can

only happen if actual physical possession is taken over.  Section

17(3)  is a provision which arms the Debts Recovery Tribunal to

give certain reliefs when applications are made before it by the

borrower. One of the reliefs that can be given is restoration of
                                                                    49 
possession. Other reliefs can also be given under the omnibus

 section 17(3)(c) . Merely because one of the reliefs given is that

of restoration of possession does not lead to the sequitur that

only actual physical possession is therefore contemplated by

 section 13(4) , since other directions that may be considered

appropriate and necessary may also be given for wrongful

recourse taken by the secured creditor to  section 13(4) . This

argument again has no legs to stand on.
 

  17.   Another argument made by learned senior counsel for the

respondents is that if we were to accept the construction of

 section 13(4)  argued by the appellants, the object of the Act

would be defeated. As has been pointed out hereinabove in the

Statement of Objects and Reasons of the original enactment,

paragraphs 2(i) and 2(j) make it clear that the rights of the

secured creditor are to be exercised by officers authorised in

this behalf in accordance with the rules made by the Central

Government. Further, an appeal against the action of any bank

or financial institution is provided to the concerned Debts

Recovery Tribunal. It can thus be seen that though the rights of

                                                                     50 
a secured creditor may be exercised by such creditor outside

the court process, yet such rights must be in conformity with the

Act. If not in conformity with the Act, such action is liable to be

interfered with by the Debts Recovery Tribunal in an application

made by the debtor/borrower. Thus, it can be seen that the

object of the original enactment also includes secured creditors

acting in conformity with the provisions of the Act to realise the

secured debt which, if not done, gives recourse to the borrower

to get relief from the Debts Recovery Tribunal. Equally, as has

been seen hereinabove, the Statement of Objects and Reasons

of the Amendment Act of 2004 also make it clear that not only

do reasons have to be given for not accepting objections of the

borrower under  section 13 (3-A), but that applications may be

made before the Debts Recovery Tribunal without making the

onerous pre-deposit of 75% which was struck down by this

Court in  Mardia Chemicals  (supra). The object of the Act,

therefore, is also to enable the borrower to approach a quasi- 
 
 judicial forum in case the secured creditor, while taking any of

the measures under  section 13(4) , does not follow the

provisions of the Act in so doing. Take for example a case in
                                                                       51 
which a secured creditor takes possession under rule 8(1) and

8(2) before the 60 days’ period prescribed under  section 13(2) 

is over. The borrower does not have to wait until actual physical

possession is taken (this may never happen as after

possession is taken under rule 8(1) and 8(2), the secured

creditor may go ahead and sell the asset). The object of

providing a remedy against the wrongful action of a secured

creditor to a borrower will be stultified if the borrower has to wait

until a sale notice is issued, or worse still, until a sale actually

takes place. It is clear, therefore, that one of the objects of the

Act, as carried out by rule 8(1) and 8(2) must also be

subserved, namely, to provide the borrower with instant

recourse to a quasi-judicial body in case of wrongful action

taken by the secured creditor.
 

 18.   Another argument that was raised by learned senior

counsel for the respondents is that the taking of possession

under  section 13(4)(a)  must mean actual physical possession

or otherwise, no transfer by way of lease can be made as

possession of the secured asset would continue to be with the


                                                                         52 
borrower when only symbolic possession is taken. This

argument also must be rejected for the reason that what is

referred to in  section 13(4)(a)  is the right to transfer by way of

lease for realising the secured asset. One way of realising the

secured asset is when physical possession is taken over and a

lease of the same is made to a third party. When possession is

taken under rule 8(1) and 8(2), the asset can be realised by

way of assignment or sale, as has been held by us

hereinabove. This being the case, it is clear that the right to

transfer could be by way of lease, assignment or sale,

depending upon which mode of transfer the secured creditor

chooses for realising the secured asset. Also, the right to

transfer by way of assignment or sale can only be exercised in

accordance with rules 8 and 9 of the 2002 Rules which require

various pre-conditions to be met before sale or assignment can

be effected. Equally, transfer by way of lease can be done in

future in cases where actual physical possession is taken of the

secured asset after possession is taken under rule 8(1) and

8(2) at a future point in time. If no such actual physical

possession is taken, the right to transfer by way of assignment
                                                                      53 
or sale for realising the secured asset continues. This argument

must also, therefore, be rejected.
 

 19.   Shri Ashish Dholakia, learned Advocate, appearing for the

intervenor, State Bank of India, argued that if we were to upset

the Full Bench judgment, there would be little difference

between the Recovery of Debts Act and the SARFAESI Act as

banks would not be able to recover their debts by selling

properties   outside   the   court   process   without   constant

interference by the Debts Recovery Tribunal. We are of the

view that this argument has no legs to stand on for the reason

that banks and financial institutions can recover their debts by

selling properties outside the court process under the

 SARFAESI Act  by adhering to the statutory conditions  laid down

by  the said Act. It is only when such statutory conditions are not

adhered to that the Debts Recovery Tribunal comes in at the

behest of the borrower. It is needless to add that under the

Recovery of Debts Act, banks/financial institutions could not

recover their debts without intervention of the Debts Recovery

Tribunal, which the  SARFAESI Act  has greatly improved upon,


                                                                      54 
the only caveat being that this must be done by the secured

creditor following the drill of the  SARFAESI Act  and rules made

thereunder. Shri Dholakia then referred to and relied upon

 section 3  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Under the said

section, “a person is said to have notice” of a fact when he

actually knows that fact, or when, but for willful abstention from

an inquiry or search which he ought to have made, or gross

negligence, he would have known it. Shri Dholakia referred to

and relied upon Explanation II to this definition, which reads as

under:
 

       “Explanation II.—Any person acquiring any
      immoveable property or any share or interest in any
      such property shall be deemed to have notice of the
      title, if any, of any person who is for the time being in
      actual possession thereof.”

We fail to understand what relevance Explanation II could

possibly have for a completely different statutory setting,

namely, that of the  SARFAESI Act  and the 2002 Rules

thereunder. For the purpose of the  Transfer of Property Act , a

person acquiring immovable property shall be deemed to have

notice of the title, if any, of any person who is for the time being

                                                                        55 
in actual possession thereof. For the purpose of the  SARFAESI

Act  read with the 2002 Rules, the taking of possession by a

secured creditor of the secured asset of the borrower would

include taking of possession in any of the modes prescribed

under rule 8, as has been held by us hereinabove. This

argument must also, therefore, be rejected.
 

 20.   We now come to some of the decisions of this Court.  In

 Transcore v. Union of India &amp; Anr. , (2008) 1 SCC 125, this

Court formulated the question which arose before it as follows: 
 
       “1. A short question of public importance arises for
      determination, namely, whether withdrawal of OA in
      terms of the first proviso to  Section 19(1)  of the DRT
      Act, 1993 (inserted by amending Act 30 of 2004) is
      a condition precedent to taking recourse to the
       Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
      Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
      2002  (“the  NPA Act ”, for short).”

To this, the answer given is in paragraph 69, which is as

follows:
 
       “69. For the above reasons, we hold that withdrawal
      of the OA pending before DRT under the  DRT Act  is
      not a precondition for taking recourse to the  NPA
      Act . It is for the bank/FI to exercise its discretion as
      to cases in which it may apply for leave and in
      cases where they may not apply for leave to
      withdraw. We do not wish to spell out those
                                                                   56 
     circumstances because the said first proviso to
      Section 19(1)  is an enabling provision, which
     provision may deal with myriad circumstances which
     we do not wish to spell out herein.”


Thereafter, the Court went on to discuss whether recourse to

take possession of secured assets of the borrower in terms of

 section 13(4)  of the Act would comprehend the power to take

actual possession of immovable property. In the discussion on

this point in paragraph 71 of the judgment, learned counsel on

behalf of the borrowers made an extreme submission which

was that the borrower who is in possession of immovable

property cannot be physically dispossessed at the time of

issuing the notice under  section 13(4)  of the Act so as to defeat

adjudication of his claim by the Debts Recovery Tribunal under

 section 17  of the Act and that therefore, physical possession

can only be taken after the sale is confirmed in terms of rule

9(9) of the 2002 Rules. This submission was rejected by stating

that the word “possession” is a relative concept and that the

dichotomy between symbolic and physical possession does not

find place under the Act. Having said this, the Court went on to

examine the 2002 Rules and held:
                                                                      57 
      “74. ……… Thus, Rule 8 deals with the stage
     anterior to the issuance of sale certificate and
     delivery of possession under Rule 9. Till the time of
     issuance of sale certificate, the authorised officer is
     like a Court Receiver under  Order 40 Rule 1 CPC .
     The Court Receiver can take symbolic possession
     and in appropriate cases where the Court Receiver
     finds that a third-party interest is likely to be created
     overnight, he can take actual possession even prior
     to the decree. The authorised officer under Rule 8
     has greater powers than even a Court Receiver as
     security interest in the property is already created in
     favour of the banks/FIs. That interest needs to be
     protected. Therefore, Rule 8 provides that till
     issuance of the sale certificate under Rule 9, the
     authorised officer shall take such steps as he deems
     fit to preserve the secured asset. It is well settled
     that third-party interests are created overnight and in
     very many cases those third parties take up the
     defence of being a bona fide purchaser for value
     without notice. It is these types of disputes which
     are sought to be avoided by Rule 8 read with Rule 9
     of the 2002 Rules. In the circumstances, the
     drawing of dichotomy between symbolic and actual
     possession does not find place in the scheme of the
      NPA Act  read with the 2002 Rules.”


If the whole of paragraph 74 is read together with the extracted

passage, it becomes clear that what is referred to in the

extracted passage is the procedure provided by rule 8(3). It is

clear that the authorised officer’s powers, once possession is

taken under rule 8(3), include taking of steps for preservation

and protection of the secured assets which is referred to in the
                                                                    58 
extracted portion. Thus, the final conclusion by the Bench,

though general in nature, is really referable to possession that

is taken under rule 8(3) of the 2002 Rules. Whether possession

taken under rule 8(1) and 8(2) is called symbolic possession or

statutory possession, the fact remains that rule 8(1) and rule

8(2) specifically provide for a particular mode of possession

taken under  section 13(4)(a)  of the Act. This cannot be wished

away by an observation made by this Court in a completely

different context in order to repel an extreme argument. This

Court was only of the opinion that the extreme argument made,

as reflected in paragraph 71 of the judgment, would have to be

rejected. This judgment therefore does not deal with the

problem before us: namely, whether a  section 17(1)  application

is maintainable once possession has been taken in the manner

specified under rule 8(1) of the 2002 Rules.
 

 21.   Another case strongly relied upon by learned counsel for

the respondents is Noble Kumar (supra). This judgment

decided that it is not necessary to first resort to the procedure

under  section 13(4)  and, on facing resistance, then approach

                                                                     59 
the Magistrate under  section 14 . The secured creditor need not

avail of any of the remedies under  section 13(4) , and can

approach the Magistrate straightaway after the 60-day period of

the notice under  section 13(2)  is over, under  section 14  of the

Act. This Court therefore held:
 
      “35. Therefore, there is no justification for the
     conclusion that the Receiver appointed by the
     Magistrate is also required to follow Rule 8 of the
     Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. The
     procedure to be followed by the Receiver is
     otherwise regulated by law. Rule 8 provides for the
     procedure to be followed by a secured creditor
     taking possession of the secured asset without the
     intervention of the court. Such a process was
     unknown prior to the  SARFAESI Act . So, specific
     provision is made under Rule 8 to ensure
     transparency in taking such possession. We do not
     see any conflict between different procedures
     prescribed by law for taking possession of the
     secured asset. The finding of the High Court in our
     view is unsustainable.
 
      36. Thus, there will be three methods for the
     secured creditor to take possession of the secured
     assets:
       36.1. (i) The first method would be where the
     secured creditor gives the requisite notice under
     Rule 8(1) and where he does not meet with any
     resistance. In that case, the authorised officer will
     proceed to take steps as stipulated under Rule 8(2)
     onwards to take possession and thereafter for sale
     of the secured assets to realise the amounts that
     are claimed by the secured creditor.
 
                                                                   60 
      36.2. (ii) The second situation will arise where the
     secured creditor meets with resistance from the
     borrower after the notice under Rule 8(1) is given. In
     that case he will take recourse to the mechanism
     provided under  Section 14  of the Act viz. making
     application to the Magistrate. The Magistrate will
     scrutinise the application as provided in  Section 14 ,
     and then if satisfied, appoint an officer subordinate
     to him as provided under  Section 14 (1-A) to take
     possession of the assets and documents. For that
     purpose the Magistrate may authorise the officer
     concerned to use such force as may be necessary.
       After the possession is taken the assets and
     documents will be forwarded to the secured creditor.
     36.3. (iii) The third situation will be one where the
     secured creditor approaches the Magistrate
     concerned directly under  Section 14  of the Act. The
     Magistrate will thereafter scrutinise the application
     as provided in  Section 14 , and then if satisfied,
     authorise a subordinate officer to take possession of
     the assets and documents and forward them to the
     secured creditor as under clause 36.2.(ii) above.
     36.4. In any of the three situations above, after the
     possession is handed over to the secured creditor,
     the subsequent specified provisions of Rule 8
     concerning the preservation, valuation and sale of
     the secured assets, and other subsequent rules
     from the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules,
     2002, shall apply.”


When this Court referred to the first method of taking

possession of secured assets in paragraph 36.1.(i), this Court

spoke of a case in which, once possession notice is given

under rule 8(1), no resistance is met with. That is why, this

                                                                  61 
Court states that steps as stipulated under rule 8(2) onwards to

take possession, and thereafter, for sale of the secured assets

to realise the amounts that are claimed by the secured creditor

would have to be taken, meaning thereby that advertisement

must necessarily be given in the newspaper as mentioned in

rule 8(2), after which steps for sale may take place. This case

again does not deal with the precise problem that is before the

Court in this case. The observation made in paragraph 36.1.(i),

which is strongly relied upon by the Full Bench of the High

Court, to arrive at the conclusion that actual physical

possession must first be taken before the remedy under  section

17(1)  can be availed of by the borrower, does not flow from this

decision at all.
 

 22.       In  Canara Bank v. M. Amarender Reddy &amp; Anr. , (2017)

4 SCC 735, this Court after referring to  Mathew Varghese v. M.

Amritha Kumar and Ors. , (2014) 5 SCC 610, which held that

the 30-day period mentioned under rule 8(6) is mandatory, then

held:  
 
         “14. The secured creditor, after it decides to proceed
        with the sale of secured asset consequent to taking
                                                                    62 
      over possession (symbolic or physical as the case
      may be), is no doubt required to give a notice of 30
      days for sale of the immovable asset as per sub-rule
      (6) of Rule 8. However, there is nothing in the Rules,
      either express or implied, to take the view that a
      public notice under sub-rule (6) of Rule 8 must be
      issued only after the expiry of 30 days from issuance
      of individual notice by the authorised officer to the
      borrower about the intention to sell the immovable
      secured asset. In other words, it is permissible to
      simultaneously issue notice to the borrower about
      the intention to sell the secured assets and also to
      issue a public notice for sale of such secured asset
      by inviting tenders from the public or by holding
      public auction. The only restriction is to give thirty
      days’ time gap between such notice and the date of
      sale of the immovable secured asset.”

Though there was no focused argument on the controversy

before us, this Court did recognise that possession may be

taken over under rule 8 either symbolically or physically, making

it clear that two separate modes for taking possession are

provided for under rule 8.
 

  23.   Similarly, in  ITC Limited v. Blue Coast Hotels Ltd. and

Ors. , AIR 2018 SC 3063, this Court held: 
 
       “45. As noticed earlier, the creditor took over
      symbolic possession of the property on 20.06.2013.
      Thereupon, it transferred the property to the sole
      bidder ITC and issued a sale certificate for Rs.
      515,44,01,000/- on 25.02.2015. On the same day,
      i.e., 25.02.2015, the creditor applied for taking
                                                                     63 
      physical possession of the secured assets under
       Section 14  of the Act.
        46. According to the debtor, since  Section 14 
      provides that an application for taking possession
      may be made by a secured creditor, and the creditor
      having ceased to be a secured creditor after the
      confirmation of sale in favour of the auction
      purchaser, was not entitled to maintain the
      application. Consequently, therefore, the order of the
      District Magistrate directing delivery of possession is
      a void order. This submission found favour with the
      High Court that held that the creditor having
      transferred the secured assets to the auction
      purchaser ceased to be a secured creditor and
      could not apply for possession. The High Court held
      that the Act does not contemplate taking over of
      symbolic possession and therefore the creditor
      could not have transferred the secured assets to the
      auction purchaser. In any case, since ITC Ltd. was
      the purchaser of such property, it could only take
      recourse to the ordinary law for recovering physical
      possession.
        47. We find nothing in the provisions of the Act that
      renders taking over of symbolic possession illegal.
        This is a well-known device in law. In fact, this court
      has, although in a different context, held in M.V.S.
      Manikayala Rao v. M. Narasimhaswami [AIR 1966
      SC 470] that the delivery of symbolic possession
      amounted to an interruption of adverse possession
      of a party and the period of limitation for the
      application of  Article 144  of the  Limitation Act  would
      start from such date of the delivery.”

  24.   This judgment also speaks of the taking over of symbolic

possession under the  SARFAESI Act . The judgment then goes

on to discuss whether a creditor could maintain an application
                                                                  64 
for possession under  section 14  of the Act once it takes over

symbolic possession before the sale of the property to the

auction purchaser. The Court referred to various authorities and

arrived at the conclusion that a secured creditor remains a

secured creditor when only constructive or symbolic possession

is given, as the entire interest in the property not having been

passed on to the secured creditor in the first place, the secured

creditor in turn could not pass on the entire interest in the

property to the auction purchaser. In this behalf, it is important

to refer to  section 8  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 which

states as follows:
 
      “8. Operation of transfer.— Unless a different
     intention is expressed or necessarily implied, a
     transfer of property passes forthwith to the
     transferee all the interest which the transferor is then
     capable of passing in the property and in the legal
     incidents thereof.
       xxx xxx xxx”

 Section 13(6)  of the SARFAESI Act makes it clear that a

different intention is so expressed by the Act, as any transfer of

a secured asset after taking possession thereof, shall vest in

the transferee all rights in the secured asset so transferred as if

the transfer had been made by the owner of such secured
                                                                       65 
asset. It is clear, therefore, that statutorily, under  section 13(6) ,

though only the lesser right of taking possession, constructive

or physical, has taken place, yet the secured creditor may, by

lease, sale or assignment, vest in the lessee or purchaser all

rights in the secured asset as if the transfer had been made by

the original owner of such secured asset. This aspect of the

matter does not appear to have been noticed in the aforesaid

judgment. The ultimate conclusion in the said judgment is,

however, correct as a secured creditor remains a secured

creditor even after possession is taken over as the fiction

contained in  section 13(6)  does not convert the secured creditor

into the owner of the asset, but merely vests complete title in

the transferee of the asset once transfer takes place in

accordance with rules 8 and 9 of the 2002 Rules.
 
 25.   We may also add that by a notification dated 17.10.2018,

rule 8 has since been amended adding two sub-rules as

follows:
 
       “3. In the said rules, in rule 8—
        (i) in sub-rule (6), for the proviso, the following
      proviso shall be substituted, namely:-
 

                                                                         66 
         “Provided that if the sale of such secured asset is
        being effected by either inviting tenders from the
        public or by holding public auction, the secured
        creditor shall cause a public notice in the Form
        given in Appendix IV-A to be published in two
        leading newspapers including one in vernacular
        language having wide circulation in the locality.”;
       (ii) for sub-rule (7), the following sub-rule shall be
     substituted, namely:–
        “(7) every notice of sale shall be affixed on the
        conspicuous part of the immovable property and
        the authorised officer shall upload the detailed
        terms and conditions of the sale, on the web- site
        of the secured creditor, which shall include;
               (a) the description of the immovable property
             to be sold, including the details of the
             encumbrances known to the secured creditor;
               (b) the secured debt for recovery of which the
             property is to be sold;
               (c) reserve price of the immovable secured
             assets below which the property may not be
             sold;
               (d) time and place of public auction or the
             time after which sale by any other mode shall
             be completed;
               (e) deposit of earnest money as may be
             stipulated by the secured creditor;
             (f) any other terms and conditions, which the
           authorized officer considers it necessary for a
           purchaser to know the nature and value of
           the property.”;
        Appendix IV-A which is now inserted by the said

notification reads as follows:
 

                                                               67 
                  “APPENDIX - IV-A
             [See proviso to rule 8 (6)]
  Sale notice for sale of immovable properties
E-Auction Sale Notice for Sale of Immovable Assets
under the  Securitisation and Reconstruction of
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002  read with proviso to Rule 8 (6) of
the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002
Notice is hereby given to the public in general and in
particular to the Borrower (s) and Guarantor (s) that
the     below     described    immovable     property
mortgaged/charged to the Secured Creditor, the
constructive/physical ______________ (whichever
is applicable) possession of which has been taken
by the Authorised Officer of ______________
Secured Creditor, will be sold on “As is where is”,
“As is what is”, and “Whatever there is” on
______________ (mention date of the sale), for
recovery of Rs. due to the ______________
Secured Creditor from (mention name of the
Borrower (s)) and ______________ (mention name
of the Guarantor (s)). The reserve price will be Rs.
______________ and the earnest money deposit
will be Rs. ______________
(Give short description of the immovable property
with known encumbrances, if any)
For detailed terms and conditions of the sale, please
refer to the link provided in ______________
Secured Creditor’s website i.e. www. (give details of
website)
Date:
                                     Authorised Officer
Place:”


                                                          68 
This appendix makes it clear that statutorily, constructive or

physical possession may have been taken, pursuant to which a

sale notice may then be issued under rule 8(6) of the 2002

Rules. Appendix IV-A, therefore, throws considerable light on

the controversy before us and recognises the fact that rule 8(1)

and 8(2) refer to constructive possession whereas rule 8(3)

refers to physical possession. We are therefore of the view that

the Full Bench judgment is erroneous and is set aside. The

appeals are accordingly allowed, and it is hereby declared that

the borrower/debtor can approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal

under  section 17  of the Act at the stage of the possession

notice referred to in rule 8(1) and 8(2) of the 2002 Rules. The

appeals are to be sent back to the Court/Tribunal dealing with

the facts of each case to apply this judgment and thereafter

decide each case in accordance with the law laid down by this

judgment.
 
                                   …………………………..J.
                                  (R.F. Nariman)
                                  …………………………..J.
                                  (Navin Sinha)
New Delhi;
  November 1, 2018.
 
                                                                    69 
