 Shashank Raj (Icici Bank Limited) vs Reserve Bank Of India on 6 May, 2022 

                          के   ीय सूचना आयोग
                   Central Information Commission
                      बाबा गंगनाथ माग,मुिनरका
                    Baba Gangnath Marg, Munirka
                    नई द ली, New Delhi - 110067

ि तीय अपील सं या/Second Appeal Nos.    CIC/RBIND/A/2021/152460
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/639603
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/660016
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/654598
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147221
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147222
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/146942
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/652193
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147383
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/145618
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/145617 and
                                       CIC/RBIND/A/2021/135704

  1. Mr. Shashank Raj (ICICI Bank Ltd.)             ... अपीलकता/Appellants
  2. Mr. Bipin Chandra Khanna (Bank of
     Baroda)
  3. Mr. Sunit Malhotra (Axis Bank Limited)
  4. Mr. Kumar Medhavi (Yes Bank Limited)
  5. Mr. Bhagyesh Joshi (HDFC Bank
     Limited)
  6. Mr. T.V. Sudhakar(Kotak Mahindra Bank
     Ltd.)
  7. Mr. Narendra Tiwari (IDFC First Bank
     Limited)
  8. Mr. S. Dinesh (State Bank of India)
  9. Bajaj Finance Limited
  10.Induslnd Bank
  11.I. L. &amp; F. S. (THIRD PARTY)
  12.R. B. L. BANK LIMITED (THIRD
     PARTY)
  13.RBL BANK LTD.,
  14.INDUSLND BANK LIMITED
  15.SAHARA INDIA F. SERVICES
(THIRD PARTY)

                                 VERSUS
                                 बनाम

                                                               Page 1 of 37
 CPIO                                                        ... ितवादी/Respondents
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
DEPARTMENT OF SUPERVISION
CENTRE-1, WORLD TRADE CENTRE,
CUFFE PARADE, COLABA, MUMBAI-400005

Mr. GIRISH MITTAL

Relevant dates emerging from the appeal:-

RTI : 01-05-2021           FA    : 20-08-2021          SA       : 06-12-2021
                                                       Hearing: 11.03.2022
CPIO : 01-07-2021          FAO : 30-08-2021
                                                       &amp; 30-03-2022

                  DIVISION BENCH OF
  SHRI NEERAJ KUMAR GUPTA AND SHRI SURESH CHANDRA

                                 ORDER
  1.    Mr. Girish Mittal i.e. the RTI applicant filed an application dated
01.05.2021 under  Section 6  of the Right to Information Act, 2005 before CPIO,
Reserve Bank of India seeking information regarding:-
 



                                                                    Page 2 of 37 
  2.     The instant matter was earlier listed before this Commission on
11.03.2022 vide which the Commission observed that &quot;It has further come into
the notice of this Commission that most of the banks (as mentioned in the RTI
application dated 01.05.2021) have also approached this Commission by way of
filing their second appeals (arising out of same RTI application) and those
second appeals are pending for hearing before this Commission bearing
numbers        CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147383;               CIC/RBIND/A/2021/145617;
CIC/RBIND/A/2021/660016;                              CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147221;
  CIC/RBIND/A/2021/147222;                              CIC/RBIND/A/2021/652193;
  CIC/RBIND/A/2021/639603;                              CIC/RBIND/A/2021/654598;
  CIC/RBIND/A/2021/146942; CIC/RBIND/A/2021/145618. Out of the above
mentioned cases, stay has been granted in file no. CIC/RBIND/A/2021/639603
and some cases were listed before the Commission but adjourned for next date
of hearing. The parties have no objection if the abovementioned cases are
clubbed together. Since, the cause of action has arisen from the same RTI
application and orders of CPIO and FAA and in the interest of justice, other
banks should also be heard in this matter before passing any order in this second
appeal&quot;.
  3.     The matter was listed for further hearing on 30.03.2022 wherein the
banks as mentioned in the RTI application of the applicant (Shri Girish Mittal)
were called to present their case or file their objection.
 

 Hearing:
 
 4.    Shri     Anand      Shankar     Jha,    MeenakshiDevgan      and     Shri
ShubhamTripathirepresented ICICI Bank Ltd. and RBL Bank who were
personally present in the hearing. Shri ArvindNayyar, Sr. Adv. Assisted by Shri
Akshay Joshi, Shri Pranaya Goyal, Shri Dhruv Shah, Ms. ApporvaKaushik, Shri
Aayesh Gandhi and Shri Dhawal Desai who were personally present in the
hearing. Shri V.K. Gupta, Advocate represented Indusind Bank was personally
present in the hearing represented Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. Shri Anish Dayal,
Sr. Adv. represented Bajaj Finance Ltd. along with Shri RakeshSinh, Shri
Anand Srivastava and Shri AnweshaChowdhary were personally present in the
hearing. Shri S. Dinesh, CPIO &amp; DGM was personally present in the hearing on
behalf of the State Bank of India along with Ms. Neha Gupta and Shri Abhinav.
The respondent, Reserve Bank of India, Shri Abhay Kumar, CPIO along with
Ms. Lali Ramesh, Assistant Legal Advisor, Shri Akhtar, Assistant Legal
Advisor attended the hearing through video-conferencing. The RTI applicant
Shri Girish Mittal attended the hearing through video-conferencing from
                                                                        Page 3 of 37 
 Mumbaiand his counsel Shri Pranav Sachdeva and Shri Jatin Bhardwaj were
personally present in the hearing. Shri Devender Singh, Chief Manager (Law)
representing Bank of Baroda along with Shri P C Khanna, PIO, Bank of Baroda
attended the hearing through video-conferencing. Shri Ayush Gandhi, Advocate
along with Shri Mangesh Joshi, Manager, Shri Tejas appeared on behalf of
HDFC Bank and attended the hearing through video-conferencing. Shri Nimish
Bhatt, Joint General Manager Corporate Legal along with Shri Gaurav Mathur
appearing on behalf of HDFC Ltd. attended the hearing through video-
conferencing from Mumbai. None appeared on behalf of the Yes Bank, ILFS
and Sahara India Financial Services despite notice.
  5.     The written submissions of all the parties were taken on record.
  6.     The counsel for HDFC Ltd. submitted that no third party notice was
issued to them by the respondent i.e. Reserve Bank of India under  Section 11(1) 
and  11(3)  of the RTI Act neither they have filed any second appeal before the
Commission in this regard. Therefore, they requested the Commission to drop
the proceedings against them. In view of this, the HDFC Ltd. is dropped from
the memo of parties.
  7.     The counsel for ICICI Bank Ltd. reiterated the arguments made by him
on the last date of hearing i.e., 11.03.2022. He further added that the judgment
of RBI Vs, Jayantilal N Mistry was not a complete code in itself wherein all
exemption clauses were not discussed but only dwelt upon annual inspection
reports/audit reports as such not being exempted under  Section 8(1)(e)  of the
RTI Act. He further argued that the issues which were not discussed in the said
judgment were then squarely pending before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of
India in W.P. (C) No. 1159/2019. The counsel for the ICICI Bank Ltd. further
submitted that the information sought by the RTI applicant was completely
exempted as the same contained data and information provided by bank about
its clients and their functioning which were exempted from disclosure under
 Section 8(1)(a) ,  8(1)(d)  and  8(1)(j)  of the RTI Act as well. He further referred to
a circular dated 14.03.1998 of Reserve Bank of India vide which Inspection
Report and Risk Assessment Report could not be disclosed to general public as
the same included capital adequacy, inherent risk, economic stability and a
dialogue between the regulator and the bank which could not be disclosed under
the  RTI Act . He emphasized that those reports were shared with the Directors
only during the deliberations in the Board and copies thereof were not provided
to them. He further submitted that the FAA dismissed the first appeal without
even considering the grounds raised in the First Appeal or satisfying himself
about the public interest in disclosure. Solely placing reliance on the judgement
of the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in RBI vs Jayantilal N. Mistry &amp; Ors., in general,
                                                                         Page 4 of 37 
 he has held that information sought must be disclosed without giving a reasoned
order of rejecting various points raised in the objections. No findings were
given regarding objections on account of various provisions of exemption under
 Section 8(1)(d)  and  8(1)(j)  of the RTI Act on the disclosure of the report as a
whole or various information interspersed in the report.  He further stated that
Ld. FAA &amp; CPIO, had failed to rely on the judgment of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme
Court, in the matter of CPIO, Supreme Court of  India vs. Subhash Chandra
Agarwal  (2020) 5 SCC 481 wherein it had been held that, CPIO, must apply the
&#x27;public interest test&#x27; and satisfy himself as to how disclosure of third party
information was required in overwhelming public interest. The counsel for the
ICICI Bank Ltd. further referred to the para nos.  76 and 77 of Jayantilal N
Mistry&#x27;s case. He further objected that the CPIO, RBI had wrongly asked them
to bring stay order from the CIC else they would disclose the information to the
RTI applicant. The information sought was a dialogue between regulator and
the bank and even as per the RBI circular, that type of information could not be
disclosed under the  RTI Act . He stated that the CPIO, RBI and FAA had
violated the principles of natural justice, as they had not given any personal
hearing to them before passing their decisions in the matter. No reasons were
given for not offering personal hearing in the first appeal. The counsel for the
appellant prayed before the Commission that the FAA order should be set-aside
for want of reasons and/or should wait for the outcome of the decision of
Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in W.P. No. 1159/2019.
  8.     The counsel for the Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. submitted that the Ld.
FAA had passed the Impugned Order without giving any opportunity of being
heard to the Appellant Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. and had inter alia failed to
appreciate that the sought disclosure of the said Inspection Reports were
exempted under  Section 8  of the Right to Information Act, 2005, more
particularly under  Section 8(1)(a) ,  Section 8(1)(d)  and  Section 8(1)(j) . Besides
the contents of the said Inspection Reports sought to be disclosed contained
confidential information pertaining to the Appellant, its customers as well as
details of the Appellant&#x27;s commercial transactions, details of Appellant&#x27;s
regulatory compliances bearing no relation with public activity/ larger public
interest, and disclosure of the same would cause prejudice to the Appellant, its
competitive positionin the market and would also affect customer&#x27;s confidence
in the Appellant Bank, it was argued. He further stated that the FAA did not
issue notice/ letter indicating the hearing ofthe First Appeal and no opportunity
of being heard was granted to the Appellant. The Impugned Order, therefore,
was vitiated by non-observance of the principles of natural justice. He further
contended that the bank was entitled to know the reasons for rejecting the
                                                                        Page 5 of 37 
 contentions made by it in an appeal by way of a reasoned order, however, the
Ld. FAA had mechanically passed the Impugned Order. He further submitted
that the Inspection Reports were part of an ongoing conversation / dialogue
between the Appellant and RBI. The Inspection Reports sought were
confidential and sensitive information which were part of data examined by RBI
ought to be read in correct context. Single Inspection Report / piece- meal
disclosure of Inspection Report under the  RTI Act  either by redacting some
portions or otherwise would present a distorted picture of the business of the
Appellant.Pertinently, disclosure of confidential information to public at large
would jeopardize the market value, goodwill and business plans of the
Appellant. It was submitted that the disclosure of confidential/sensitive
information furnished by the Appellant would result in disclosure of
confidential and private information of the customers of the bank. If such
information was disclosed, it would have affected the trust reposed by people in
private commercial bank. Needless to mention that would not only affect the
functioning of the banking and financial services sector of the country, but such
disclosure would also prejudicially affect the Appellant&#x27;s functioning and would
infringe the Appellant&#x27;s shareholders&#x27; right to conduct /undertake business.
Thus, it was submitted that the disclosure of the Inspection Reports was in
violation of  Article 19(1)(g)  of the Constitution. The right to privacy of a person
has been recognized and upheld as a fundamental rightunder  Article 21  of the
Constitution by a nine justices&#x27; bench of the Apex Court in K.S.Puttaswamyv.
Union of India [Reported at (2017) 10 SCC 1]. The counsel further submitted
that the Appellant Bank has also filed an Intervention Application being
IANo.71227 of 2021 in the matter and the same was pending before the Court.
In the meantime,if the information is disclosed by RBI as indicated by them in
their letter dated 13th August 2021, irreparable damage would have been caused
to the Appellant&#x27;s rights during the pendency of this Appeal and the said Writ
Petitions. The Appellants had also filed an application for interim relief in the
above Appeal and till the issue was pending before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court
and/or pendency of the Appeal the Commission should stay the Impugned
Order in the interest of justice and equity.
   9.     The counsel for the HDFC Bank Ltd. had also raised similar issues as
mentioned above and was aggrieved by the decision of the CPIO and FAA. He
stated that the CPIO without appreciating the contentions / objections raised by
the Appellant and rights of the Appellant, its customers and employees, passed
an unreasoned and nonspeaking decision and communicated its intent to
disclose the details of the said Reports by the impugned Order. Pertinently, the
CPIO did not deal with any objection raised by the Appellant in its reply with
                                                                         Page 6 of 37 
 respect to  Section 11  Notice and hence, the decision arrived by the CPIO was
issued in gross transgression of the principles of natural justice. He, further,
submitted that while the Ld. FAA had relied upon the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court&#x27;s
Judgment in Transferred Case  No.91 of 2015 Reserve Bank of India V.
Jayantilal N. Mistry  for disclosure of inspections report, it was apposite to
mention that the Appellant amongst other bank had filed Writ Petition being
Writ Petition No.1095 of 2019 before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India inter
alia challenging disclosure of vital information of the banks, including the
inspection/ risk assessment reports. Thus, the issue pertaining to disclosure of
inspection reports under the  RTI Act  was sub-judice before the Hon&#x27;ble
Supreme Court of India in the said Writ Petition filed by several banks. 
   10. The counsel for the Bajaj Finance Ltd. submitted that they were
aggrieved by the order passed by the CPIO and FAA. He stated that the First
Appellate Authority failed to appreciate that the scope, purport and application
of  the above decision  and othersrelating to regulatory and/ or supervisory
matters of RBI were pending consideration by the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in a
batch of matters led by the case of  HDFC Bank Ltd. &amp; Ors. v. Union of India
(WP (C)No.1159/  2019.  He further contended that the First Appellate Authority
further failed to notice the statutory provisions of Chapter III-B of the Reserve
Bankof India Act, 1943 relating to Appellant/ NBFC and mechanically applied
the decision of the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in Jayantilal N. Mistry case which
dealt with the inspection reports qua the Banks and not NBFCs like the
Appellant Company. None of the issues raised by the Appellant Company were
considered by the First Appellate Authority. He stated that the provisions
contained in  Chapter III-B of the RBI Act  categorically demonstrates that the
intent of the legislature was to keep the information shared between the RBI and
the concerned NBFC in strict confidence and was not to be disclosed to any
third party. The Preamble ofthe  RTI Act  itself provides that the right to
information and requirements for preservation of confidentiality of sensitive
information were to be harmonised. Therefore, a purposive meaning ought to
have been given to the provisions of the  Special Act  such as the prohibition on
disclosure of information u/s 45-NB in  Chapter III-B of the RBI Act .     The
counsel has further referred to the decisions of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India
in  Rangku Dutta Vs. State of Assam ;  Yakub Abdul Razak Memon Vs. State of
Maharashtra ;  U.P. State Electricity Board &amp; Another Vs. Hari Shankar Jain
&amp;Ors.  and  General Manager, Telecom Vs. M. Krishnan &amp; Another  in support
of his arguments. He stated that the information sought by the applicant was
exempted from disclosure under  Section 8(1)(d) ,  8(1)(e)  and  8(1)(j)  of the RTI


                                                                        Page 7 of 37 
 Act. Further no public interest was disclosed either by the applicant nor by the
CPIO in disclosing the information.    
   11. The counsel for the Indusind Bank Ltd. submitted that a second appeal
bearing no. CIC/RBIND/A/2021/135704 was filed by them wherein stay was
granted to them vide order dated 10.02.2022. The counsel for the bank further
submitted that the CPIO had passed the non-speaking order and no finding was
given on various issues raised by the appellant. He stated that the FAA should
have considered and applied the provisions of the  RTI Act  more particularly
provisions relating to the exemptions from disclosure and provisions prohibiting
disclosure of certain information, while deciding the appeal of the appellant.
Simply because the information which was being generated by the RBI or
available in possession with RBI, it could not be disclosed or given to the public
without any further inquiry and examination/scrutiny under the provisions of the
Act. He stated that the FAA having dismissed the appeal of the appellant by
applying the judgment of the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India in  Reserve Bank
of India &amp; Ors. Vs. Jayantilal Mistry &amp; Ors  had violated the principles of
natural justice in as much as the appellate authority did not grant any
opportunity to the appellant to submit its response to the applicability of said
judgment. The information sought by the applicant was exempted from
disclosure under  Section 8(1)(d) ,  8(1)(j)  of the RTI Act. Further, the same issue
was pending before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India, he contended. 
   12. The counsel for IDFC Bank Ltd. and Axis Bank Ltd. submitted that the
bank prima facie raised its objections to the clubbing of the captioned matters
and listing them for hearing on 30th March 2022 along with ICICI Bank&#x27;s
Appeal. The appellant inter alia submitted that they were not aware about the
facts and circumstances involved in the ICICI Bank&#x27;s Appeal, or for that matter
in the appeals of the other banks and financial institutions. The facts and
circumstances involved in the captioned Appeals may be entirely different from
that of IDFC Bank&#x27;s Appeal. In fact, the nature of information sought in ICICI
Bank&#x27;s Appeal and the captioned matters were highly different since the
inspection reports prepared by RBI, in relation to each bank, were based on the
information pertaining to the respective individual bank, and therefore,
information contained in such inspection reports would highly vary from bank
to bank. Moreover, the questions of law, submissions and/or other objections of
IDFC FIRST Bank might differ from that of ICICI Bank&#x27;s Appeal. The
appellant bank inter alia argued that the information sought by the RTI
application Shri Girish Mittal was exempted from disclosure under the
provisions of  section 8 (1) (a) , (d), (h) and (j) of the  RTI Act ; and that the
Supreme Court&#x27;s judgment in  Reserve Bank of India v. Jayantilal N. Mistry
                                                                        Page 8 of 37 
 &amp;Anr. [(2016) 3 SCC 525] did not deal with the exemption under  section 8 (1)  
  (d) of the  RTI Act . They further stated that the inspection report contained
confidential and sensitive information in relation to the business of appellant
including trade secrets and information of commercial nature. That the
inspection reports contained information such as names and details of the
clients, their transaction history, financial solvency, business model of the
appellant, its solvency, disclosure of which in public domain would provide
information to the competitors of the appellant, thereby causing commercial
disadvantage to the appellant. The appellant while claiming exemption under
 section 8 (1) (a)  of the RTI Act argued that the inspection reports contained
complex business data which could not be comprehended by a layman. In fact,
even a person with expertise would require context to correctly and rightly
understand the inspections reports. Therefore, the wholesale disclosure of the
inspection reports without any background could set panic in the depositors,
investors and other stakeholders of the appellant bank which would
consequently have direct adverse effect on the functioning of financial services
sector specifically and the economy generally. Hence, the disclosure of the
inspection reports would affect the &quot;economic security&quot; of the country. The
appellant while claiming exemption under  section 8 (1) (d)  of the RTI Act relied
upon the RBI Circular dated 14th March 1998 titled &quot;Inspection under  section
35  of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949&quot;, wherein the RBI had directed the
commercial banks to not provide a copy of the inspections reports even to its
directors. They contended that as per the circular even where a copy of the
inspection reports were permitted to be given to the audit committee and/or
statutory auditors of the commercial banks, such copies would be retained by
committee/auditors in strict confidence. Therefore, the information contained in
the inspection reports were of such nature that even the directors of the
commercial banks were not allowed to retain copies, the same under no
circumstance were supposed to be provided to a third person i.e. an RTI
applicant with no interest or concern at all. The appellant while claiming
exemption under  section 8 (1) (h)  of the RTI Act, argued that the information
contained material information relating to the customers against whom legal
proceedings had been initiated and were sub judice. Therefore, the disclosure of
the information could adversely impact proceedings and investigations and
recovery of dues. Moreover, show cause notices issued by the RBI to the
appellant was done by RBI under its regulatory and supervisory work.  Thus, the
information was exempted from disclosure under  section 8 (1) (h)  of the RTI
Act. The appellant while claiming exemption under  section 8 (1) (j)  of the RTI
Act, argued that the information constituted &quot;personal information&quot; relating to
                                                                       Page 9 of 37 
 the customers of the appellant bank. Therefore, the disclosure of the information
would violate right to privacy of the appellant and its customers. The appellant
relied upon the following observations made by the Supreme Court in  K.S.
Puttaswamy vs. Union of India  [(2017) 10 SCC 1]: 
         &quot;652.3.      The right to privacy is protected as an intrinsic part of the
       right to life and personal liberty under  Article 21  and as part of the
       freedom guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution.
         652.4.       Decisions subsequent to Kharak Singh which had enunciated
       position in para 652.3., above lay down the correct position in law.&quot;
  Further, there was no larger public interest warranting the disclosure of the
information.  In that regard, the appellant relied upon the following observations
made by the Supreme Court in the case of Supreme Court of  India v. Subhash
Chandra Aggarwal  [(2020) 5 SCC 481]: 
         &quot;95. The last aspect in the context of public interest test would be in the
       form of clarification as to the effect of sub-section (2) to  section 6  of the
       RTI Act which does not require the information seeker to give any reason
       for making request for the information. Clearly, &quot;motive&quot; and &quot;purpose&quot;
         for making the request for information is irrelevant, and being extraneous
       cannot be a ground for refusing the information. However, this is not to
       state that &quot;motive&quot; and &quot;purpose&quot; may not be relevant factor while
       applying the public interest test in case of qualified exemptions governed
       by the public interest test.&quot;
  13. In view of the above, the appellant Bank prayed that the order dated
02.08.2021 passed by the FAA should be set aside by declaring that the
information sought by the RTI applicant including the Inspections Reports/Risk
Assessment Reports under the  RTI Act  was exempted from disclosure under the
 RTI Act .
  14. The appellant State Bank of India while presenting his case inter alia
submitted that the RBI in pursuant to the ratio in Jayantilal N Mistry case and
the Girish Mittal case, RBI disclosed complete RARs, of the Appellant Bank for
the years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, without complying with the provisions of the
 RTI Act  or the principles of natural justice, actions were completely arbitrary,
and therefore violative of  Article 14  of the Constitution. The Appellant bank
further submitted that they were in the apprehension that the same might be
done in the instant case also. The appellant Bank alsosubmitted thatthe
observations recorded by the RBI in the documents ((Inspection Report/Risk
assessment Report) were based on confidential information concerning the
Bank and its customers, which RBI had obtained in its capacity as the banking
regulator/ supervisor of the country. Further, the observations could be best
                                                                         Page 10 of 37 
 handled by specialists in the subject and making it available to public at large
might lead to erroneous interpretations and consequentially, to unwarranted and
avoidable impact on the standing of the entire banking system- SBI being a
Domestic Systemically Important Bank (DSIB) and also otherwise being the
leading financial institution of the country. Accordingly, the appellant
contended that the disclosure would prejudicially affect the economic interests
of the State (India) thereby harming the overall public sentiment also. Hence,
the entire information sought was exempted from disclosure under  section 8(1) 
  (a) of the Act. In additional to the above, the appellant bank stated that major
part of the information contained in the Documents were personal information
of customers of the appellant&#x27;s Bank, held in the fiduciary capacity and in the
absence of any details as to how disclosure of which would have a constructive
impact on public activity or interest, its disclosure would cause unwarranted
invasion into the privacy of the individuals/customers. Therefore, the
information sought by the RTI applicant was exempted under  section 8 (1) (e) 
&amp; (j) of the  RTI Act . It was also argued that the exemption had to be seen from
the standpoint of SBI and not RBI. The appellant informed that the contents of
the Documents were reflective and contained particulars of their internal
positions, control systems and procedures. Disclosure of the information
contained therein would adversely impact the appellant Bank&#x27;s repute and would
harm the standing &amp; image of the Bank in the public eye and accordingly it
would harm the competitive position of a third party, viz (appellant Bank).
Accordingly exemption was claimed under  section 8(1) (d)  of the Act. The
appellant bank humbly submitted that the Documents comprises of Risk
Assessment, Major areas of financial divergence, findings on capital and
earnings and major areas of non-compliance. The Annexure mentioned in the
Reports give statistical data which was most sensitive information for SBI and
was exempted under  Section 8(1) (d)  of the RTI Act. The appellant bank also
submitted that the directions of the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court to RBI in the Girish
Mittal case had been misconstrued by RBI. The appellant contended that the
Hon&#x27;ble Apex Court in the Jayantilal N Mistry case and the Girish Mittal case
were presented with a limited perspective, as the parties which were central to
the entire process and arguably one of the primary stakeholders who stand
affected by the said Judgments i.e. the banks and the financial institutions (such
as the Appellant Bank herein), were not party to the proceedings / the above
said Judgments, and hence, the Appellant Bank herein never had an opportunity
to put forth its stand before the Hon&#x27;ble Court.
  15. The counsel for the appellant Bank i.e. Bank of Baroda while presenting
the case inter alia submitted that providing the RAR (Risk Assessment Report)
                                                                       Page 11 of 37 
 of the Bank might hamper the Bank&#x27;s competitive position and would cause
prejudice to Bank&#x27;s commercial interest, hence, the disclosure thereof was
exempted under  section 8 (1) (d)  of the RTI Act. The appellant bank further
contended that RAR and Inspection Report contained third party/customer
information, held by the bank in fiduciary capacity and disclosure of
information to the RTI applicant might jeopardize the banker-customer relation
and might amount to infringement of their fiduciary relation hence the same was
exempted under  section 8 (1) (e)  &amp; (j) of the  RTI Act . Besides, the appellant
bank vehemently argued that the CPIO of RBI while conveying his intention to
disclosure the information, had failed to explain as to how the information
sought would have served the larger public interest. Furthermore, the appellant
Bank submitted that the RBI while forwarding Risk Assessment Report of any
Bank placed the following restrictions on disclosure of the same which was not
rescinded by the RBI: &quot;The supervisory rating is issued in strict confidence for
restricted information of the TOP Management only. The Bank should not quote
this for raising deposits or loans or in any other communications. Divulgence of
this information to any authority under law is permissible only after written
approval from the RBI. &quot;  In addition to the above, the appellant Bank relied
upon the case: a writ petition (civil) No. 786 of 2021-  Bank of Baroda vs.
Union of India &amp; ORS  before Hon&#x27;ble SC and made the following prayers:- 
         (a) &quot;Issue a writ in the nature of writ, order of directions to CPIO and
       RBI not to disclose the confidential and sensitive information and strike
       down the said Impugned Actions taken by the CPIO, RBI as against the
       petitioner.
         (b) Declare that information obtained by RBI in course of its
       inspections as well as in the course of its regulatory and functions related
       to banks and the financial institutions including information relating to
       customer/employees, information in relation to the management, business
       plan, trade secret and risk ratings of the petitioner bank, requirement &amp;
       regulatory intervention any unpublished price sensitive information are
       exempted from disclosure under  section 8 (1)  of the RTI Act cannot be
       disclosed.
         (c) Direct the respondent not to disclose any reports or any
       information whether in full or in part, contained in them which are
       exempted from disclosure under relevant provisions of  section 8  of the
       RTI Act, and /or under any other law(s) for the time being in force.
         (d) Direct the respondents to forthwith forbear from disclosure to
       applicants or otherwise information obtained by RBI in the course of it


                                                                        Page 12 of 37 
        Inspections as well as in the course of its regulatory and related functions
       relating to banks and financial institutions.&quot;
  It was informed by the appellant bank that aforesaid writ petition was pending
before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme court for considerations. The Supreme Court had
issued notice in the matter and tagged the matter along with the concerned writ
petitions. They further stated that since the matter was pending before the
Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court and other banks had preferred similar writ petitions
(tagged), the matter was sub-judice and order if any passed by the Hon&#x27;ble CIC,
there may be an irreparable injury to the appellant bank. Accordingly, they
prayed to allow the present appeal of the bank and direct the CPIO, DBS, RBI
not to part with the information as sought by the RTI applicant Shri Girish
Mittal.
 
 16. The counsel for the RTI applicant i.e. Shri Girish Mittal submitted that
the respondent Reserve Bank of India was duty bound to disclose the
information sought by the applicant in his RTI application as per Jayantilal
Mistry case. He stated that the Reserve Bank of India was creator of reports and
it acted as a guardian of public interest. Banks worked in the interest of public
and it was the public money that had been invested in banks, therefore, there
was a larger public interest in disclosing the information. Therefore, as per the
judgment of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India dated 16.12.2015 and as per order
dated 28.04.2021 complete information should be disclosed to the RTI
applicant. He stated that there was no ambiguity in Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case and
there was a larger public interest in disclosing the information. On query from
the Commission, the counsel for the applicant submitted that Shri Girish Mittal
has also been impleaded in the Writ Petition Nos. 1159/2019 and 768/2021 and
other tagged matters which were pending before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of
India.
   17. The representative of the Reserve Bank of India while presenting their
case inter alia submitted that the applicant, Shri Girish Mittal, vide RTI
application dated 01.05.2021 inter alia, sought, Inspection Reports/ Risk
Assessment Reports made by RBI post completing the inspection of commercial
banks and NBFCs including applicant bank for last 3 years from the date of his
application. They further submitted that the then CPIO issued the notice under
 Section 11(1)  read with  Section 11(2)  of the Right to Information Act, 2005
 (RTI Act ) to the third party i.e. appellant banks informing that RBI was required
to disclose the information sought by Shri Girish Mittal, enabling appellant to
make written submission within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice
as to whether the information sought by the applicant might be disclosed or not

                                                                        Page 13 of 37 
 along with reasons for the same. After considering the response from appellant,
the CPIO decided to disclose Risk Assessment Reports for the years 2017-18 &amp;
2018-19 and Inspection Report for the year 2018-19 of banks to the applicant.
The respondent further relied on judgments passed in  Girish Mittal v.
Parvathy Sundaram and Another , (2019) (6) SCALE 804, the Apex Court
directed that &#x27;the Respondents are duty bound to furnish all information relating
to inspection reports and other material apart from the material that was
exempted in para 77 of the judgment in Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case.In paragraph
77 of the judgement  referred to above , the Supreme Court observed, as follows: 
 
       &#x27;when it comes to national economic interest, disclosure of information
      about currency or exchange rates, interest rates, tax, the regulation and
      supervision of banking, insurance and other financial institutions,
      proposals for expenditure or borrowing and foreign investment could in
      some cases harm the national economy, particularly if released
      prematurely&#x27;. With regard to such information affecting national interest,
      the Supreme Court further observed in the same paragraph that &#x27;...the
      appropriate time of providing the information which will depend on the
      nature of the information sought for and the consequences it will lead to
      after coming in public domain&#x27;.
  The respondent further contended that in order to withhold any information
sought by the applicants under the  RTI Act , such information should fall within
any of the exempted items under  Section 8  and  9  of the RTI Act. If any part of
the requested information qualifies for exemption, CPIO would be free to
severe/black-out such part and provide the information. The CPIO had decided
to disclose the information after severing the information exempted from
disclosure under  Section 10(1)  of the RTI Act.
 

 Decision:
  18. The Commission, after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the
case, hearing the parties and perusal of records, observes that the RTI applicant
Shri Girish Mittal had sought information regarding Inspection Reports /
RiskAssessment Reports made by Reserve Bank postcompleting the inspection,
inter alia, pertaining to ICICI Bank Limited i.e. appellant herein and 13 other
banks/Financial Institutions for the last 3 years. Further, he has asked for copies
of show cause notices issued to any of the banks as mentioned above and
response of these banks/NBFCs. The CPIO, Reserve Bank of India issued
notices under  Section 11(1)  and  11(3)  to the respecting banks mentioned above
intending to disclose the information. Aggrieved by the decision of the CPIO,
                                                                        Page 14 of 37 
 the said banks had filed first appeals with the First Appellate Authority. The
FAA had also dismissed the first appeals of the banks summarily. Being
aggrieved by the orders of the FAA, some banks had filed second appeals
before this Commission. On the other hand, the RTI applicant insisted for
disclosure of information as per Jayantilal N. Mistry&#x27;s case. The CPIO, Reserve
Bank of India also intended to disclose the information sought after invoking
 Section 10  of the RTI Act. The Banks are aggrieved that the information sought
as a whole is exempted from disclosure under  Section 8(1)(d)  and  8(1)(j)  of the
RTI Act and that the CPIO/FAA has not passed any reasoned order settling their
objections nor gave any opportunity of hearing to them. They further argued
that orders simpliciter almost identical in various cases irrespective of the
different objections raised by them apparently lacked application of mind or
reasons. Rejection or acceptance of the specific objections raised by them were
not spelt out in the orders which have been passed without giving an
opportunity of hearing to them.
 
 19. The Commission further noted the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India in
Reserve Bank of India V/s Jayantilal N. Mistry case made observations
which read as under:-
 
        &quot;the RBI does not place itself in a fiduciary relationship with the
       Financial institutions because, the reports of the inspections, statements
       of the bank, information related to the business obtained by the RBI are
       not under the pretext of confidence or trust. In this case neither the RBI
       nor the Banks act in the interest of each other. By attaching an additional
       &quot;fiduciary&quot; label to the statutory duty, the Regulatory authorities have
       intentionally or unintentionally created an in terrorem effect. RBI is a
       statutory body set up by the  RBI Act  as India&#x27;s Central Bank. It is a
       statutory regulatory authority to oversee the functioning of the banks and
       the country&#x27;s banking sector. Under  Section 35A  of the Banking
       Regulation Act, RBI has been given powers to issue any direction to the
       banks in public interest, in the interest of banking policy and to secure
       proper management of a banking company. It has several other far-
       reaching statutory powers&quot;.
  It clarifies that the functional relationship between a regulator and a regulated
entity is not fiduciary. On the other hand the relationship is based on a statutory
obligation to ensure operational discipline and support remedial framework.
Hence its observations, guidance, directions or remedial actions are an outcome
of own functioning.
 
                                                                        Page 15 of 37 
  20. On the other hand, the Commission takes note of the submissions made
by the Banks and Financial Institutions that large amount of data relating to its
clients including their identity, business plans, decisions and financial
transactions as well as institutional data such as business plans, trade secret, risk
rating, requirement of regulatory intervention, any unpublished price sensitive
information etc. of banks and financial institutions is shared with the regulator,
without any redaction or withholding the information, in good faith that these
will be objectively analysed in discharge of their statutory obligations to make
fair judgment on their functioning without affecting their competitive position.
The Commission also appreciates that these institutions function in highly
competitive, complex and global environment and the data being sought by the
regulator is with the intention to draw conclusions on their functioning rather
than disclosing the data shared by them in breach of right to privacy of
individuals or cause adverse effect to their competitive position vis-à-vis others.
To this extent, there is an element of trust and confidence in sharing the data,
both financial and operational, between the RBI and the Financial
Institutions.The information and data of the clients in the hands of
Banks/Financial Institutions also has the element of trust and confidence that
such data will not be disclosed or shared against their right to
privacy/commercial interest and it is undisputed that clients enjoy fiduciary
relationship with the Banks/Financial Institutions irrespective of these being
public or private entities.
  21. The Commission observes that it is already a settled position in Jayantilal
Mistry&#x27;s case that RBI is not fiduciary in relationship with the banks and
financial instution irrespecitve of these being public or private entities. But
contents of those reports viz. names of depositors/ borrowers, their transaction
and financial history etc., mentioned in above para 20, entrusted by the clients
to their respective banks or financial institutions are interspersed in these reports
and have to be examined in the light of para nos. 77 of the same judgment and
various other judicial pronouncements protecting right to privacy and protection
of commercial interests. Therefore, the CPIO, Reserve Bank of India has rightly
invited objections but not expressed his reasoned view that to what extent he is
agreeing or disagreeing by the objections of the Banks while sharing the
proposed redacted report for disclosure in some cases. The Commission is of
the view that it is not a simple set of information as inspection and audit report
consists of data about client, borrowers and institution as mentioned in previous
para beside, its analysis, judgment and observations on the analysis on the data
provided by the banks on its functioning, regulatory compliance, deficiencies
and strengths, suggestions for course of correction, penal action as per
                                                                          Page 16 of 37 
 provisions of the law etc., and may be much more which the Commission may
not be in a position appreciate in toto at this stage. The Commission further
observes that the Reserve Bank of India also acknowledged this and hence have
opted for appropriate redaction. Even the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India in
Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case had observed that &quot;71. We also understand that the
RBI cannot be put in a fix, by making it accountable to every action taken by it.
However, in the instant case the RBI is accountable and as such it has to
provide information to the information seekers under  Section 10(1)  of the RTI
Act, which reads as under:&quot; Section 10(1)  Severability --Where a request for
access to information is rejected on the ground that it is in relation to
information which is exempt from disclosure, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, access may be provided to that part of the record which
does not contain any information which is exempt from disclosure under this
Act and which can reasonably be severed from any part that contains exempt
information.&quot;
 
  22. The Commission while taking into consideration the contentions raised
by the parties have taken note of the fact that the RAR for the years 2017-18 &amp;
2018-19 and inspection report for the year 2018-19 contain details of clients of
the banks including their transaction and financial history which have been
entrusted by them to their respective banks or financial institutions in a
fiduciary capacity. Further, in  Central Board Of Sec. Education &amp;Anr. vs
Aditya Bandopadhyay&amp;Ors  [2011 (8) SCC 497] vide order dated 09.08.2011
examined and explained the expression &#x27;fiduciary relationship&#x27;, and have
illustrated a few relationships where parties were involved in an act of fiduciary
capacity including &#x27;customers&#x27; in the following words: 
          &quot;20. The term `fiduciary&#x27; and `fiduciary relationship&#x27; refer to different
        capacities and relationship, involving a common duty or obligation. 20.1)
        Black&#x27;s Law Dictionary (7th Edition, Page 640) defines `fiduciary
        relationship&#x27; thus:
 
       A relationship in which one person is under a duty to act for the benefit of
      the other on matters within the scope of the relationship. Fiduciary
      relationships - such as trustee-beneficiary, guardian-ward, agent-
      principal, and attorney-client - require the highest duty of care. Fiduciary
      relationships usually arise in one of four situations : (1) when one person
      places trust in the faithful integrity of another, who as a result gains
      superiority or influence over the first, (2) when one person assumes
      control and responsibility over another, (3) when one person has a duty
      to act for or give advice to another on matters falling within the scope of
                                                                       Page 17 of 37 
       the relationship, or (4) when there is a specific relationship that has
      traditionally been recognized as involving fiduciary duties, as with a
      lawyer and a client or a stockbroker and a customer.&quot;
 
       &quot;39. The term &quot;fiduciary&quot; refers to a person having a duty to act for the
      benefit of another, showing good faith and candour, where such other
      person reposes trust and special confidence in the person owing or
      discharging the duty. The term &quot;fiduciary relationship&quot; is used to
      describe a situation or transaction where one person (beneficiary) places
      complete confidence in another person (fiduciary) in regard to his affairs,
      business or transaction(s). The term also refers to a person who holds a
      thing in trust for another (beneficiary). The fiduciary is expected to act in
      confidence and for the benefit and advantage of the beneficiary, and use
      good faith and fairness in dealing with the beneficiary or the things
      belonging to the beneficiary. If the beneficiary has entrusted anything to
      the fiduciary, to hold the thing in trust or to execute certain acts in regard
      to or with reference to the entrusted thing, the fiduciary has to act in
      confidence and is expected not to disclose the thing or information to any
      third party.&quot;
 
  While taking into consideration the fact that the customers give their financial
information to the banks in confidence and with complete faith that may not be
divulged as a result of disclosure by others, the following observations passed
by the Supreme in Court  Bihar Public Service Commission v. SaiyedHussain
Abbas Rizwi and Anr. [ (2012) 13 SCC 61] may be relied upon: 
 
       &quot;The satisfaction has to be arrived at by the authorities objectively and
      the &quot;consequences of such disclosure have to be weighed with regard to
      the circumstances of a given case. The decision has to be based on
      objective satisfaction recorded for ensuring that larger public interest
      outweighs unwarranted invasion of privacy or other factors stated in the
      provision. Certain matters, particularly in relation to appointment, are
      required to be dealt with great confidentiality. The information may come
      to knowledge of the authority as a result of disclosure by others who give
      that information in confidence and with complete faith, integrity and
      fidelity. Secrecy of such information shall be maintained, thus, bringing it
      within the ambit of fiduciary capacity. Similarly, there may be cases
      where the disclosure has no relationship to any public activity or interest
      or it may even cause unwarranted invasion of privacy of the individual.
      All these protections have to be given their due implementation as they
                                                                         Page 18 of 37 
       spring from statutory exemptions. It is not a decision simpliciter between
      private interest and public interest. It is a matter where a constitutional
      protection is available to a person with regard to the right to privacy.
      Thus, the public interest has to be construed while keeping in mind the
      balance factor between right to privacy and right to information with the
      purpose sought to be achieved and the purpose that would be served in
      the larger public interest, particularly when both these rights emerge
      from the constitutional values under the Constitution of India.&quot;
 
  As emphasized by the Supreme Court in the judgment of Central Public
Information Officer, Supreme Court of  India vs. Subhash Chandra Agarwal 
in its judgment dated 13.11.2019, right to privacy and right to information have
to be treated as co-equals and none can take precedence over the other, rather a
balance needs to be struck. The following observations may also be relied upon
in that regard: 
 
        &quot;42. Privacy, it is uniformly observed in  K.S. Puttaswamy  (supra), is
      essential for liberty and dignity. Therefore, individuals have the need to
      preserve an intrusion-free zone for their personality and family. This
      facilitates individual freedom.  On the question of invasion of personal
      liberty, the main judgment has referred to a three-fold requirement in the
      form of - (i) legality, which postulates the existence of law (RTI Act in the
      present case); (ii) need, defined in terms of a legitimate State aim; and
        (iii) proportionality, which ensures a rational nexus between the objects
      and the means to be adopted to achieve them. The third requirement, we
      would observe, is achieved in the present case by  Sections 8(1)(j)  and  11 
      of the RTI Act and the RTI Act cannot be faulted on this ground.  The RTI
      Act  also defines the legitimate aim, that is a public interest in the
      dissemination of information which can be confidential or private (or
      held in a fiduciary relationship) when larger public interest or public
      interest in disclosure outweighs the protection or any possible harm or
      injury to the interest of the third party.&quot;
 
  Further in  K.S. Puttaswamy and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors.  [(2017) 10
SCC 1], the Supreme Court observed as under: 
 
       &quot;623. An individual has a right to protect his reputation from being
      unfairly harmed and such protection of reputation needs to exist not only
      against falsehood but also certain truths. It cannot be said that a more
      accurate judgment about people can be facilitated by knowing private

                                                                        Page 19 of 37 
       details about their lives - people judge us badly, they judge us in haste,
      they judge out of context, they judge without hearing the whole story and
      they judge with hypocrisy. Privacy lets people protect themselves from
      these troublesome judgments.&quot;
 
 In view of the above, the Commission is of the view that these judicial
pronouncements have to be factored while deliberating all the claims of the
applicants for complete disclosure which may include inadvertent disclosure of
financial, transactional and operational data of the clients of the Banks and
Financial Institutions interspersed in RAR/Annual Audit reports etc. and
specific objections filed by the Financial Institutions for non-disclosure of such
data held by these Institutions in fiduciary capacity while deciding in favour or
against the elements of the reports proposed to be redacted or disclosed.
   23.      Further, in  Naresh Trehan vs Rakesh Kumar Gupta [W.P.(C )
85/2010 &amp; CM Nos.156/2010 &amp; 5560/2011], the Delhi High Court made the
following observations: 
 
       &quot;...It is, thus, essential that information relating to business affairs,
      which is considered to be confidential by an assessee must remain so,
      unless it is necessary in larger public interest to disclose the same. If the
      nature of information is such that disclosure of which may have the
      propensity of harming one&#x27;s competitive interests, it would not be
      necessary to specifically show as to how disclosure of such information
      would, in fact, harm the competitive interest of a third party. In order to
      test the applicability of  Section 8(1)(d)  of the Act it is necessary to first
      and foremost determine the nature of information and if the nature of
      information is confidential information relating to the affairs of a private
      entity that is not obliged to be placed in public domain, then it is
      necessary to consider whether its disclosure can possibly have an adverse
      effect on third parties.&quot;
 
        The Supreme Court while deciding upon issues relating to personal
information of an individual in terms of his income tax returns passed the
following observations in  GirishRamchandra Deshpande v. Central
Information Commr.  [(2013) 1 SCC 212] : 
 
       &quot;12. The petitioner herein sought for copies of all memos, show-cause
      notices and censure/punishment awarded to the third respondent from his
      employer and also details viz. movable and immovable properties and
      also the details of his investments, lending and borrowing from banks and

                                                                        Page 20 of 37 
       other financial institutions. Further, he has also sought for the details of
      gifts stated to have been accepted by the third respondent, his family
      members and friends and relatives at the marriage of his son. The
      information mostly sought for finds a place in the income tax returns of
      the third respondent. The question that has come up for consideration is:
        whether the abovementioned information sought for qualifies to be
      &quot;personal information&quot; as defined in clause (j) of  Section 8(1)  of the RTI
      Act.
 
        13. We are in agreement with the CIC and the courts below that the
       details called for by the petitioner i.e. copies of all memos issued to
       the third respondent, show cause notices and orders of
       censure/punishment etc. are qualified to be personal information as
       defined in clause (j) of  Section 8(1)  of the RTI Act. The performance
       of an employee/officer in an organization is primarily a matter
       between the employee and the employer and normally those aspects
       are governed by the service rules which fall under the expression
       &quot;personal information&quot;, the disclosure of which has no relationship
       to any public activity or public interest. On the other hand, the
       disclosure of which would cause unwarranted invasion of privacy of
       that individual. Of course, in a given case, if the Central Public
       Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer of the
       Appellate Authority is satisfied that the larger public interest
       justifies the disclosure of such information, appropriate orders
       could be passed but the petitioner cannot claim those details as a
       matter of right.
         14. The details disclosed by a person in his income tax returns are
       &quot;personal information&quot; which stand exempted from disclosure under
       clause (j) of  Section 8(1)  of the RTI Act, unless involves a larger
       public interest and the Central Public Information Officer or the
       State Public Information Officer or the Appellate Authority is
       satisfied that the larger public interest justifies the disclosure of
       such information.&quot;
         The aforementioned observations make it clear that the data has been
shared by the individuals with the Income Tax Department which is seeking
such information as an statutory authority but while analyzing and assessing
their income keeps this data secured in the fiduciary capacity and hence it is
protected from disclosure. It is applicable not only for individuals but for other
legal entities recognizable under  Income Tax Act . Further, it has been observed
that such information in the hands of public authority even in the discharge of
statutory obligations is protected under fiduciary relationship.The Commission
is of the view that the data of the clients held by the banks or financial
institutions in fiduciary capacity may besharedwith the regulator under statutory
                                                                       Page 21 of 37 
 obligationsshould not be disclosed by the regulator merely on the grounds that it
is obtained for the purpose of supervision and regulation unless it is amply
justified in the larger public interest.
   24. The Commission takes note of the contentions raised by the NBFC i.e.
Bajaj Finance Ltd., that a general legislation under provision of  section 22  of
the RTI Act may not override a special legislation drafted with legislative intent
for the protection of financial data of the banks and financial institutions. The
Supreme Court in  Rangku Dutta Vs. State of Assam (2011) 6 SCC 358 made
the following observations: 
 
       &quot;It is obvious that  Section 20(A)(1)  is a mandatory requirement of law.
      First, it starts with an overriding clause and, thereafter, to emphasise its
      mandatory nature, it uses the expression &quot;No&quot; after the overriding clause.
      Whenever the intent of a statute is mandatory, it is clothed with a
      negative command. Reference in this connection can be made to G.P.
      Singh&#x27;s Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 12th Edition. At page 404,
      the learned author has stated:
 
              &quot;As stated by CRAWFORD: &quot;Prohibitive or negative words can
             rarely, if ever, be directory. And this is so even though the statute
             provides no penalty for disobedience. As observed by SUBBARAO,
             J.: &quot;Negative words are clearly prohibitory and are ordinarily used
             as a legislative device to make a statute imperative&quot;. Section
             80 and  Section 87-B  of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,  section
             77  of the Railways Act, 1890; section 15 of the Bombay Rent Act,
             1947;  section 213  of the Succession Act, 1925;  section 5-A  of the
             Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947;  section 7  of the Stamp Act,
             1899;  section 108  of the Companies Act, 1956;  section 20(1)  of the
             Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954;  section 55  of the Wild
             Life Protection Act, 1972, the proviso to  section 33(2)(b)  of the
             Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (as amended in 1956);  section 10A  of
             Medical Council Act, 1956 (as amended in 1993), and similar
             other provisions have therefore, been construed as mandatory. A
             provision requiring &#x27;not less than three months&#x27; notice is also for
             the same reason mandatory.&quot;
 
 We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid statement of law by the
learned author.&quot;
 
 Further in Yakub Abdul RazakMemonVs. State of Maharashtra (2013) 13
SCC 1, the Supreme Court made the following observations:
                                                                        Page 22 of 37 
       &quot;The principle that the later Act would prevail the earlier Act has
     consistently been held to be subject to the exception that a general
     provision does not derogate from a special one. It means that where the
     literal meaning of the general enactment covers the situation for which
     specific provision is made by another enactment contained in the earlier
     Act, it would be presumed that the situation was intended to continue to
     be dealt with by the specific provision rather than the later general one.&quot;
 
  Further in  U.P. State Electricity Board &amp; Another Vs. Hari Shankar Jain
&amp;Ors.  and General Manager, Telecom Vs. M. Krishnan &amp; Another (1978)
4 SCC 16, the Supreme Court made the following observations: 
 
      &quot;The maxim &quot;Generaliaspecialibus non derogant&quot; is quite well known.
     The rule flowing from the maxim has been explained in Mary Seward v.
     The owner of the &quot;Vera Cruz&quot;(l) as follows:
 
      &quot;Now if anything be certain it is this, that where there are general words
     in a later Act capable of reasonable and sensible application without
     extending them to subjects specially dealt with by earlier legislation, you
     are not to hold that earlier and special legislation indirectly repealed,
     altered, or derogated from merely by force of such general worlds
     without any indication of a particular intention to do so&quot;.
 
      (1) [1884] 10 AC 59 at 68.
 
      The question in Seward v. Vera Cruz was whether  Sec. 7  of the Admiralty
     Court Act of 1861, which gave jurisdiction to that Court-over &quot;any claim
     for damage done by any ship&quot; also gave jurisdiction over claims for loss
     of life which would otherwise come under the  Fatal Accidents Act . It was
     held that the general words o  Sec. 7  of the Admiralty Court Act did not
     exclude the applicability of the  Fatal Accidents Act  and therefore, the
     Admiralty Court had no jurisdiction to entertain a claim for damages for
     loss of life.
 
      The reason for the rule that a general provision should yield to a specific
     provision is this: In passing a  Special Act , Parliament devotes its entire
     consideration to a particular subject. When a General Act is subsequently
     passed, it is logical to presume that Parliament has not repealed or
     modified the former  Special Act  unless it appears that the  Special
     Act  again received consideration from Parliament. Vide London and
     Blackwall Railway v. Lighthouse District board o Works(l) and Thorpe v.
                                                                      Page 23 of 37 
        Adams(2). In J. K. Cotton Spinning &amp; Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. state of
      Uttar Pradesh(3), this Court observed (at p. 1174):
 
       &quot;The rule that general provisions should yield to specific provisions is not
      an arbitrary principle made by lawyers and judges but springs from the
      common understanding of men and women that when the same person
      gives two directions one covering a large number of matters in general
      and another to only some of them his intention is that these latter
      directions should prevail as regards these while as regards us the rest the
      earlier direction should have effect&quot;.
 
 These pronouncements of the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court has bearing in the present
matter and need to be factored on case to case basis for their applicability.
 
 25. It was not the case that the Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case had not attained
finality and that the issues involved therein were no more res integra. The case
of the RTI applicant was that on the basis of law laid down by the apex court in
the Jayantilal case, he was entitled to the information sought by him. Thus
distinction is to be made between res judicata and precedent. The applicant has
been seeking on the basis of ratio decidendi of Jayantilal. In order to understand
the precedent (ratio decidendi), we may have to discuss the findings of the
Supreme Court in the Jayantilal case. The determination of the ratio decidendi
i.e. the reason of the decision, is not easy as it might appear at the first sight.  In
the Supreme Court, each judge may state the principle in a different language,
and hence it may not be possible to ascertain exactly what the ratio decidendi is.
In  Krishna Kumar V. UOI  (1990) 4 SCC 207, while clarifying that the
precedent consists only in the &quot;inunciation of the reason or principle upon
which a question before a court has been decided&quot;, the Supreme Court
observed: 
 
       &quot;The ration decidendi is the underlying principle, namely the general
      reasons or the general grounds upon which the decision is based on the
      test or abstract from the specific pecularities of the particular case which
      gives rise to the decision. The ratio decidendi has to be ascertained by an
      analysis of the facts of the case and the process of reasoning involved in
      the major consisting of a pre-existing rule of law, either statutory or
      judge made, and minor premise consisting of the material facts of the
      case under immediate consideration&quot;.
   In  Dalbir Singh v. State of Punjab  [(1979) 3 SCC 745] The Supreme Court
has observed: 
 
                                                                           Page 24 of 37 
        &quot;22. ...A decision on a question of sentence depending upon the facts and
      circumstances of a particular case, can never be regarded as a binding
      precedent, much less &quot;law declared&quot; within the meaning of  Article 141  of
      the Constitution so as to bind all courts within the territory of India.
      According to the well-settled theory of precedents every decision contains
      three basic ingredients:
 
       &quot;(i) findings of material facts, direct and inferential. An inferential
      finding of facts is the inference which the Judge draws from the direct or
      perceptible facts;
 
       (ii) statements of the principles of law applicable to the legal problems
      disclosed by the facts; and

        (iii) judgment based on the combined effect of (i) and (ii) above.&quot;
 
       For the purposes of the parties themselves and their privies, ingredient
        (iii) is the material element in the decision for it determines finally their
      rights and liabilities in relation to the subject-matter of the action. It is
      the judgment that estops the parties from reopening the dispute. However,
      for the purpose of the doctrine of precedents, ingredient (ii) is the vital
      element in the decision. This indeed is the ratio decidendi. It is not
      everything said by a Judge when giving judgment that constitutes a
      precedent. The only thing in a Judge&#x27;s decision binding a party is the
      principle upon which the case is decided and for this reason it is
      important to analyse a decision and isolate from it the ratio decidendi. In
      the leading case of Qualcast (Wolverhampton) Ltd. v. Haynes [LR 1959
      AC 743], it was laid down that the ratio decidendi may be defined as a
      statement of law applied to the legal problems raised by the facts as
      found, upon which the decision is based. The other two elements in the
      decision are not precedents. The judgment is not binding (except directly
      on the parties themselves), nor are the findings of facts. ...&quot;
 
  26. The Supreme Court in its order dated 16.12.2015 in the matter between
the  Reserve Bank of India Vs. Jayantilal N. Mistry  transferred cases (Civil)
No. 91 of 2015 while clubbing other (transferred) cases i.e (Civil) Nos. 92 to
101 of 2015 and upholding, among others, the order of CIC dated 01.11.2011
inter alia held that the CIC order did not suffer from any error of law,
irrationality or arbitrariness. Accordingly the Court did not interfere with the
order of the CIC. The other transferred applications contained identical issues
and the same were also dealt with on similar lines. It may not be out of place to

                                                                        Page 25 of 37 
 mention that the law  laid down by  Supreme Court under  Article 141  is binding
all authorities. 
 
 27. In order to understand the ratio decidendi, we may discuss the findings of
the Supreme Court in Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case. The information sought in the
RTI applications included last RBI investigation and audit reports carried out by
the Shri Santosh Kumar during 23.04.2010 to 06.05.2010 sent to Registrar of
the Cooperative of Gujarat State, Gandhinagar on Makarpura Industrial Estate
Cooperative Bank Limited; Last 20 years inspection (carried out with name of
Inspector) report on above bank and action taken report; Report on all
Cooperative Banks on liquidation, action taken against all Directors and
Managers for recovery of public funds and powers utilised by RBI and analysis
and procedures adopted; Name of remaining Cooperative Banks under
observations against irregularities and action taken report and period required to
take action and implementations. The RBI inter alia claimed exemptions under
 Section 8 (1) (a)  and (e) of the  RTI Act, 2005 . Similary, in transfer case no. 92
of 2015 the issue involved included advisory notes issued to the Hong Kong
Branch of ICICI Bank.
 
 28. In transfer case number 93 of 2015, the RTI applicant sought copies of
inspection reports of NABARD. In transfer case number 95 of 2015 details of
Show Cause notices of fines imposed by RBI on various banks were sought.
The main contention of the RBI was that they were in fiduciary relationship
with the banks and that disclosure of the information sought in respect of
various banks could have destabilised financial position of the banks and could
have adversely affected the economic interest of the county. Besides, the
revelation of the information could have adversely affected the competitive
position of the bank. Apart from claiming exemption under  Section 8 (1) (a) , (d)
&amp; (e) of the  RTI Act, 2005 , the provisions contained under  Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 , the  RBI Act  1934 and the  Credit Information Companies
(Regulation) Act  2005 were relied upon. The RBI in its capacity as regulator
and supervisor of the banking system of the country had access to the critical
information which was held by it in confidence. The general provisions of the
 RTI Act  could not override the provisions of confidentiality conferred upon the
RBI by the special statutes referred to above. While rejecting the contention of
the RBI and upholding the decision of the CIC, the Supreme Court discussed
the fiduciary relationship elaborately.
 
 29. The Supreme Court, after discussing statement of objects and reasons of
the  RTI Act, 2005 , various provisions of the Act, judicial pronouncements:
 
                                                                       Page 26 of 37 
    Central Board of Secondary Education and anr. Vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay and
Ors. (2011) 8SCC497 UP Vs. Rajnarayan AIR 1975 Supreme Court 865; SP
Gupta Vs. President of India AIR 1982 SC 149;  UOI Vs. Association of
Democratic Reforms  AIR 2002 SC 2112; PUCL Vs. UOI ( 2003) 4 SCC 399 and
Mardia Chemicals Ltd. V. UOI  (2004) 4 SCC 31,1held:  
 
        &quot;(i) The RBI does not place itself in fiduciary relationship with the
financial institutions because the report of the inspections statements of bank,
information related to the business obtained by the RBI are not under the pretext
confidence or trust. In this case neither the RBI nor the banks act in the interest
of each other. By attaching additional fiduciary level to the statutory duty, the
Regulatory authorities have intentionally or unintentionally created an in
terrorem effect. [Para 58]

         (ii)  The RTI Act, 2005  under  Section 2 (f)  clearly provides that the
inspection reports, documents etc. fall under the purview of information which
is obtained by the public authority (RBI) from a private body.
 
        (iii) We also understand that the RBI cannot be put in a fix, by making it
accountable to every action taken by it. However, in the instant case the RBI is
accountable and as such it has to provide information to the information seekers
under  Section 10 (1)  of the RTI Act. [Para 71]

         (iv) Similary Sub Section (1) of  Section 8 , of the RTI Act, 2005, contains
the exemption provisions where right to information can be denied to public in
the name of national security and sovereignty, national economic interests,
relationship with foreign states etc. Thus, not all the information that the
Government generates will or shall be given out to the public. It is true that
gone are the days of closed doors policy making and they are not acceptable
also but it is equally true that there are some information which if published or
released publicly, they might actually cause more harm than good to our
national interest if not domestically it can make the national interests vulnerable
internationally and it is more so possible with the dividing line between national
and international boundaries getting blurred in this age of rapid advancement of
science and technology and global economy. It has to be understood that rights
can be enjoyed without any inhibition only when they are nurtured within
protective boundaries. Any excessive use of these right which may lead to
tampering these boundaries will not further the national interest. and when it
comes to national economic interest, disclosure of information about currency
or exchange rates, interest rates, taxes, the regulation or supervision of banking,
insurance and other financial institutions, proposals for expenditure or
                                                                        Page 27 of 37 
 borrowing and foreign investment could in some cases harm the national
economy, particularly if released prematurely. However, lower level economic
and financial information, like contracts and departmental budgets should not be
withheld under this exemption. This makes it necessary to think when or at what
stage an information is to be provided i.e the appropriate time of providing the
information which will depend on nature of information sought for and the
consequences it will lead to after coming in public domain. [para 76]
         (v) That the provisions contained under  Section 22  of the RTI Act
provide overriding effect over all other Acts including the  Official Secrets Act 
being a later law, specifically brought in to usher transparency and to transform
the way official business is conducted. The only exception to access to
information are contained in the  RTI Act  itself i.e. in  Section 8  of the RTI Act.
  30. The Supreme Court while upholding the order of the Commission dated
01.11.2011 did not ipso facto endorse everything said in that order. The Hon&#x27;ble
Supreme Court has in plethora of cases highlighted the judicial discipline by
holding that judgements of the larger benches should be followed or whenever,
opinion differ the same may be referred to the Chief Justice for constitution of
larger bench. It is true that the sovereign immunity principle in claiming
privilege for any document has been converted into the public interest immunity
wherein the final decision rests with the adjudicating bodies. However, there
have been plethora of judicial orders highlighting the use of restraint by judicial
bodies in substituting the wisdom over those who have been assigned the
function of implementation of laws. The Supreme Court in Jayantilal case has
categorically laid down principles as discussed above. However, other issues
including the exemptions under  Section 8 (1) (a) (d)  &amp; (j) have been left open
and the same are pending adjudication in the writ petition (C 1159/2019) which
will be discussed in subsequent paragraphs.
  31. In an Article &quot;Constitutional Rights, Judicial Review and Parliamentary
Democracy&quot;, (published in Economic and Political Weekly Vol. LIV No. 15)
Ashwini Kumar, Sr. Advocate and former Law Minister while highlighting the
logic of balanced exercise of judicial power and judicial restraint has observed;
         &quot;The Contrarians persist with a view in favour of restraints, arguing that
       in a democracy, people exercise their sovereignty through elected
       representatives and not through the unelected judges who must defer to
       the wisdom of parliamentary majorities. Questions are raised not so
       much about the advisability of review jurisdiction itself but with its
       perceived overreach to encompass areas of governance considered
       outside its purview and about the finality of judicial wisdom. &quot;Judicial
       supremacy,&quot; &quot;judicial excessiveness,&quot; or &quot;despotism of an oligarchy&quot;
                                                                         Page 28 of 37 
         are seen as antithetical to democracy and contrary to its first principles.
       It is contented that the failings of democracy and inadequacies of the
       democratic process cannot be invoked to negate the core of the
       democratic principle, namely that ultimate sovereignty vests in the
       people. Thus, arrangements of governance embodied in the Constitution
       resulting from the exercise of their free will cannot be used to deprive the
       ultimate masters of the right of final decision over their destiny. It is
       argued that &quot;juridification of politics and politization of the judiciary&quot;
         would be a loss for both the legislature and judiciary and that judiciary
       cannot act as a &quot;censor of all governmental action.&quot;
  Thus, the sovereign (citizen) having sent their elected representatives to the
highest institution i.e. the Parliament and the Parliament having conferred
administrative discretion on public authority through legislation the same may
not be substituted unless there are grounds of illegality, irrationality or
procedural impropriety. The Parliament through the  RTI Act, 2005  has provided
checks and balances for disclosing information by public authorities in their
custody by providing exemptions under sub Section (1) of  Section 8  of the RTI
Act, 2005.
  32. Perusal of the following paragraphs in Jayantilal Mistry judgment make it
clear that the fundamental rights enshrined upon the citizens in form of right to
information are not absolute and that the right to information may not draw
precedence over right to privacy. Therefore, the Courts need to strike a balance
between the rights as well as protections guaranteed to a citizen under  Article 19 
of the Constitution. Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India hasheld that the disclosure
of information relating to banks and financial institutions may be allowed taking
into account the circumstances and nature of information sought for and not in a
blanket manner. The relevant paragraphs are produced as under:
 
       &quot;76 But neither the Fundamental Rights nor the Right to information have
      been provided in absolute terms. The fundamental rights guaranteed
      under  Article 19  Clause 1 (a) are restricted under  Article 19  clause 2 on
      the grounds of national and societal interest. Similarly  Section 8 , clause 1
      of  RTI Act, 2005 , contains the exemption provisions where right to
      information can be denied to public in the name of national security and
      sovereignty, national economic interests, relations with foreign states,
      etc. Thus, not all the information that the Government generates will or
      shall be given out to the public. It is true that gone are the days of closed
      doors policy making and they are not acceptable also but it is equally
      true that there are some information which if published or released
      publicly, they might actually cause more harm than good to our national
      interest...if not domestically it can make the national interests vulnerable
      internationally and it is more so possible with the dividing line between
                                                                        Page 29 of 37 
        national and international boundaries getting blurred in this age of rapid
       advancement of science and technology and global economy... And when
       it comes to national economic interest, disclosure of information about
       currency or exchange rates, interest rates, faxes, the regulation or
       supervision of banking, insurance and other financial institutions,
       proposals for expenditure or borrowing and foreign investment could in
       some cases harm the national economy, particularly if released
       prematurely This makes it necessary to think when or at what stage an
       information is to be provided i.e., the appropriate time of providing the
       information which will depend on nature of information sought for and
       the consequences it will lead to after coming in public domain&quot;.
  33. The Commission further takes note of the conduct of the CPIO wherein
the CPIO vide its letter has advised various banks to obtain the stay order from
the Commission else they will disclose complete information to the RTI
applicant. The conduct of the CPIO is arbitrary and not sustainable under law
and the Commission issues strict warning to the CPIO for such conditional
orders. He is at best free to take decisions on disclosure of information as per
provision of  RTI Act, 2005  giving a reasoned orders on the objections filed.
  34. The Commission further observes that the CPIO while issuing notice
under  Section 11  of the RTI Act has given the opportunity to the Institutions to
file their objections, if any, against disclosure of RAR/Inspection reports/Audit
Reports, etc. but has not found it necessary to give them an opportunity of
hearing. While not doing so, the CPIO has not passed any reasoned order
covering his deliberations on their objections, his understanding of law or
jurisprudence in deciding specific objections, in favor of disclosure or redaction
etc. Orders passed by the CPIO in all the cases are cryptic, almost identical
without any reference to objections raised by the Banks/Institutions which are
definitely not identical. Similarly, the FAA instead of passing a speaking order
have also given a cryptic, almost identical orders to the appellant banks. The
CPIO and the FAA are expected to apply their mind before issuing the order of
intent of disclosing the information. Further, no opportunity of personal hearing
was given to the appellant nor speaking order have been passed by FAA for not
giving opportunity of hearing or elaborating reasons for accepting /not
accepting their objections in his decisions in these various appeals. The
Commission is of the view that every objection should be dealt and
rejected/accepted with a reason and reasons for not giving opportunity of
personal hearing should be well reasoned too in view of wider implications.
  35. The Commission observes that rightful claims of the RTI applicants has
to be adjudicated in the light of specific objections filed by the Institutions,
                                                                       Page 30 of 37 
 various judicial pronouncements of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court and High Courts
providing guidance on such matters. Opportunity of hearing should necessarily
be provided and orders passed by the CPIO and the FAA otherwise should be
reasoned, speaking and clear. In the present case, such orders should enumerate
the principles for disclosure or non-disclosure of reports or various types of
data, personal information, commercially sensitive information of clients or
institutions, specifically excluded disclosures under various Acts, etc. which
will be applied at the time of redaction of contents of these inspection/audit
reports. Where it is observed that the RBI is willing to share the redacted reports
proposed to be disclosed with the Institutions, the very thought process gone
behind is should be mentioned in the orders of CPIO or FAA in their orders.
   36. The Commission in this context refer to the judgment of the Hon&#x27;ble
Delhi High Court in decision in  J P Aggarwal v. Union of India (WP (C ) no.
7232/2009 it has held that: 
         &quot;The PIO is expected to apply his / her mind, duly analyse the material
       before him / her and then either disclose the information sought or give
       grounds for non-disclosure.&quot;
  Furthermore, in OM No. 20/10/23/2007-IR dated 09.07.2009, while elaborating
on the duties and responsibilities of the FAA, it was stated that:
 
       &quot;3. Deciding appeals under the  RTI Act  is a quasi judicial function. It is,
      therefore, necessary that the appellate authority should see that the justice
      is not only done but it should also appear to have been done. In order to
      do so, the order passed by the appellate authority should be a speaking
      order giving justification for the decision arrived at.
        5.............................. The Act  provides that the first appellate authority
      would be an officer senior in rank to the CPIO. Thus, the appellate
      authority, as per provisions of the Act, would be an officer in a
      commanding position vis a vis&#x27; the CPIO. Nevertheless, if, in any case,
      the CPIO does not implement the order passed by the appellate authority
      and the appellate authority feels that intervention of higher authority is
      required to get his order implemented, he should bring the matter to the
      notice of the officer in the public authority competent to take against the
      CPIO. Such competent officer shall take necessary action so as to ensure
      implementation of the  RTI Act . &quot;
  37. The Commission takes note that writ petition filed by the banks bearing
W.P. (C) No. 1159/2019 before Hon&#x27;ble Supreme of India and the very fact that
the Writ Petitions are admitted and permitted to be contested by the parties.
 

                                                                             Page 31 of 37 
  However, no view has been taken till now by the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of
India. The prayers made in the one of the Writ Petitions are:-
         &quot;(a.) pass an order striking down the impugned actions i.e. the letters
       dated 26.06.2019 issued by Reserve Bank of India to Petitioner Nos. 1 to
       3;
         (b.) declare that the information obtained by Reserve Bank of India in the
       course of its inspections as well as in the course of its regulatory and
       related functions relating to banks and financial institutions including
       information relating to customers/employees, information in relation to
       the management of the banks and financial institutions, business plans of
       the banks, trade secret of the banks and financial institutions, risk rating
       of the banks, requirement of regulatory intervention, any unpublished
       price sensitive information are exempted from disclosure under  Section
       8(1)  of the Right to Information Act, 2005 and cannot be disclosed under
       the  RTI Act ;
         (c.) direct the respondents to forthwith forbear from disclosing to
       applicants or otherwise information obtained by RBI in the course of its
       inspections as well as in the course of its regulatory and related functions
       relating to banks and financial institutions including information relating
       to customers/employees, information in relation to the management of the
       banks and financial institutions, business plans of the banks, trade secret
       of the banks and financial institutions, risk rating of the banks,
       requirement of regulatory intervention, any unpublished price sensitive
       information;
         (d.) declare that private banks including the petitioner banks, unlike
       public sector banks are not a public authority under  Section 2(h)  of the
       RTI Act, 2005;
         (e.) issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order or
       direction under  Article 32  of the Constitution of India directing the
       respondents to comply with the provisions of the  RTI Act, 2005 
       particularly  Section 8 ,  10 ,  11  and  19  thereof;
         (f.) issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order or
       direction under  Article 32  of the Constitution of India directing the
       respondents to abide by the Disclosure Policy dated 18.06.2018 issued by
       the RBI;
         (g.) issue such other writ(s), order(s) and/or directions as this Hon&#x27;ble
       Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the
       case&quot;.
 

                                                                        Page 32 of 37 
  38. It may not be out of place to mention that the Supreme Court vide order
dated 28.04.2021, while dismissing MA No. 2342 of 2019 in Transfer case
(Civil) No. 91 of 2015 inter alia observed as under        :
          &quot;The learned counsel appearing for the Applicants cited judgments of
       this Court in their support to distinguish a review from recall. It was
       argued that a review petition would require consideration of the matter
       on merits in case there is an error apparent on the face of record.
       Whereas, recall applications are entertained only in case the judgment is
       passed without jurisdiction or without an opportunity of hearing being
       given to the affected party. All the judgments that are cited on this point
       are cases where petitions for recall were entertained when a person
       directly affected by the judgment was not heard. In the instant case, the
       dispute relates to information to be provided by the RBI under the Act.
       Though the information pertained to the banks, it was the decision of the
       RBI which was in challenge and decided by this Court. No effort was
       made by any of the applicants in the miscellaneous applications to get
       themselves impleaded when the transferred cases were being heard by
       this Court. The applications styled as recall are essentially applications
       for review. The nomenclature given to an application is of absolutely no
       consequence - what is of importance is the substance of the application -
        M.C. Mehta v. Union of India12 .  A close scrutiny of the applications for
       recall makes it clear that in substance, the applicants are seeking a
       review of the judgment in JayantilalN.Mistry (supra). Therefore, we are
       of the considered opinion that these applications are not maintainable.
       We make it clear that we are not dealing with any of the submissions
       made on the correctness of the judgment of this Court in Jayantilal N.
       Mistry (supra). The dismissal of these applications shall not prevent the
       applicants to pursue other remedies available to them in law&quot;.
  39. A comprehensive view has to be taken on the objection filed by the
institutions. These objectives has to be deliberated and adjudicated in the light
of Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case and other judicial pronouncements relevant in such
matter, some of which have been referred by the Commission in the above parts
as well. The Commission while examining various objections realize that the
Writ Petitions filed before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court of India is seeking
directions of the Supreme Court for non-disclosure of certain aspects of these
audit/inspection report and any such guidance in these Writ Petitions will have
direct bearing and provide further clarity to the CPIO/FAA in adjudicating
various aspects of disclosure/non-disclosure of reports or the information/data
which are part of these reports under the provisions of the  RTI Act . The
                                                                       Page 33 of 37 
 Commission takes note that all the cases/second appeals filed herein are based
on interpretations of RBI Vs. Jayantilal Mistry case and other relevant judicial
pronouncements requesting for full disclosure vis-à-vis with exemptions under
 Section 8(1)  of the RTI Act for non-disclosure of full or parts of these reports.
  40. In view of the above observations, the Commission is of the view that the
reports generated in the hands of regulatory public authority in discharge of its
statutory obligations are information under  Section 2 (f)  of the RTI Act, as the
regulator and the regulated entities are not governed by fiduciary relationship.
The orders of the Commission to their effect has been upheld by the Hon&#x27;ble
Supreme Court in Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case and the position is unchanged even
today. Various objections filed by banks/financial institutions, to be examined,
analyzed and adjudicated upon, are related to various data and information
submitted to the Reserve Bank of India by these financial institutions explaining
their operations, commercial decisions, clients data etc. under statutory
obligations can be disclosed as such. There are apparently two set of such
information which have been shared by the institutions with the regulator under
statutory obligation. First is the information/data of clients relating to their
business/commercial operations, financial transactions, business and
commercial strategy which is shared by clients with financial institutions in full
trust and confidence and is held by them in fiduciary capacity, protected from
disclosure under the  RTI Act  in their hands. Second set is the information
relating to business strategy, decisions, transactions, other operational data etc.
of financial institutions have been bearing on their competitive position which
also enjoys the exemption from disclosure in their hands, if it is a public
authority or otherwise, under the  RTI Act . Some of such data, on case to case
basis be sensitive enough for protection of national interest. The Commission is
of the view that the protection of disclosure of information under  Section 8(1) 
of the RTI Act, 2005 in the hands of financial institutions does not evaporate
once such data/information is shared, in good faith and trust, with the regulator
under statutory obligation.Various observations of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in
Jayantilal Mistry&#x27;s case also does not indicate so and decision of the regulator to
consider redacting such data/information while disclosing the reports is aligned
with this and other judicial pronouncements of Supreme Court and High Courts.
  41. The Commission has already outlined the deficiency in the conduct of the
CPIO/FAA while hearing such matters and hence is of the opinion that due care
has to be taken by according opportunity of personal hearing and making
reasoned order with reference to the objections in the hands of the CPIO and
later in the hands of FAA, if any appeal is preferred. Hence, the CPIO will be
required to adjudicate such RTI applications in the light of the observations of
                                                                        Page 34 of 37 
 the Commission afresh. The Commission also expects that the CPIO will take
view on various objections filed by the Banks and Financial Institutions and
submissions made by applicant to reach the decision in favour or against
redaction of various parts of the report on case to case basis. He has to factor the
observation of Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in Jayantilal Mistry case and other
relevant judgments, some of which have been referred in this order as well.
Hence, with these observations the orders passed by the CPIO and FAA in these
matters are set aside and the cases are being remanded to the CPIO for
adjudication afresh.
  42. It is amply clear that Writ Petition Nos. 1159/2019 and 768/2021 and
others tagged are admitted in Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court wherein guidance and
direction has been sought on non-disclosure of certain type of information
which are essentially the part of the Annual Inspection Report/RAR, etc. These
petitions also seek protection of interim communication between regulator and
the regulated entity in the process of finalization of these reports or otherwise. It
is obvious that decision in these Writ Petitions will provide clarity and guidance
to the Public Authority on redaction/non-disclosure of a set of information
inspite of being part of these reports which are open to disclosure. At this stage,
any decision by the Public Authority will amount to pre-judging the issues
pending admitted Writ Petitions before the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court. Various
banks, financial institutions, respondent public authority and the RTI applicant
have already impleaded party and are presenting their arguments before the
Apex Court.
  43. Hence, any decision of redaction or disclosure of information, without
waiting for decision in the Writ Petition Nos. 1159/2019 and 768/2021 and
others tagged may cause irrevocable damage against right of privacy and
protection of commercial interest. Hence, the respondent public authority if
expedient may wait for the outcome in Writ Petition Nos. 1159/2019 and
768/2021 and others tagged or seek clarification from the Hon&#x27;ble Court and
accordingly decide these RTI applications by following process as enumerated
in the earlier paras by the Commission in the interest of principles of natural
justice. While disclosing the information they should be cautious in taking a
considerate view balancing right to privacy, protection of national and
commercial interest on one hand vis-à-vis larger public interest.
   44. It is further observed that similar view has also been taken by the
Division Bench of the Commission in file bearing nos. CIC/VS/A/2013/001488
and CIC/VS/A/2013/001805 dated 11.05.2017 wherein the Commission
observed that &quot;Having considered the submissions of both the parties, the
Commission observes that since a similar issue is pending adjudication before
                                                                          Page 35 of 37 
 the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in the matter of Central for  Public Interest
Litigation Vs. Housing &amp; Urban Development Corporation Ltd. &amp;Ors. , it would
be judicious to await the final outcome from the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court.
However, on receipt of the final outcome from the Hon&#x27;ble Supreme Court in the
matter, the appellant shall be at liberty to file second appeal afresh, if he so
desires. The instant appeals are disposed of&quot;. 
  45. With the above observations, the appeals are disposed of.
  46. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties.  




                                                                 नीरज कु मार गु ा)
                                          Neeraj Kumar Gupta (नीरज              ा
                                        Information Commissioner (सूसूचना आयु )
                                                        दनांक / Date : 05.05.2022




Authenticated true copy
(अिभ मािणत स यािपत  ित)




Addresses of the parties:
1.   CPIO
     RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
     DEPARTMENT OF SUPERVISION
     CENTRE-1, WORLD TRADE CENTRE,
     CUFFE PARADE, COLABA, MUMBAI-400005

2.    MR. GIRISH MITTAL
      (ORIGINAL APPELLANT)

                                                                      Page 36 of 37 
 3.    CPIO
      I. L. &amp; F. S. (THIRD PARTY)

4.    CPIO
      R. B. L. BANK LIMITED


5.    CPIO
      INDUSLND BANK LIMITED

6.    CPIO
      SAHARA INDIA F. SERVICES (THIRD PARTY)

7.    MR. SHASHANK RAJ
      (ICICI BANK LIMITED)

8.    MR.BIPIN CHANDRA KHANNA
      DGM (RBS), BANK OF BARODA



9.    MR.SUNIT MALHOTRA
      AXIS BANK LIMITED


10.   MR. KUMAR MEDHAVI
      YES BANK LIMITED



11.   MR.BHAGYESH JOSHI
      HDFC BANK LIMITED,

12.   MR. T.V. SUDHAKAR
      KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED

13.   MR.NARENDRA TIWARI
      IDFC FIRST BANK LIMITED,

14.   MR. S. DINESH
      (STATE BANK OF INDIA)

15.   BAJAJ FINANCE LIMITED
      GENERAL COUNSEL
      BAJAJ FINANCE LIMITED
                                                Page 37 of 37 
  