 M. Rajendran vs M/S Kpk Oils And Proteins India Pvt. Ltd on 22 September, 2025 

 2025 INSC 1137                                                                REPORTABLE

                                     IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                      CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                                      CIVIL APPEAL NO. 12174 OF 2025
                         [Arising out of Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 11068 of 2023]



   M. RAJENDRAN &amp; ORS.                                                       …APPELLANT(S)



                                                     VERSUS



   M/S KPK OILS AND PROTIENS INDIA PVT. LTD. &amp; ORS.                          …RESPONDENT(S)




                                                      WITH

                                       CIVIL APPEAL NO. 12175      OF 2025
                                [Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 14696 of 2023]




                                                 JUDGMENT
 



    Signature Not Verified 

    Digitally signed by 
    VISHAL ANAND 
    Date: 2025.09.22 
    18:40:31 IST 
    Reason: 
 J.B. PARDIWALA, J.:
  For the convenience of the exposition, this judgment is divided into the

following parts: -
 
                                                        INDEX

I. FACTUAL MATRIX ................................................................................... 3
  A. Proceedings before the DRT. .................................................................... 8
II. IMPUGNED ORDER ............................................................................... 10
III. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES ...................................................... 13
  A. Submissions on behalf of the appellants. ............................................ 14
  B. Submissions on behalf of the borrowers. ............................................. 14
IV. ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION ........................................................... 15
V. ANALYSIS ................................................................................................. 15
  A. Legislative History and Scheme of the SARFAESI Act. .................... 15
        i.   The impetus behind enactment of the  SARFAESI Act . ................................. 16
        ii. Relevant Statutory Provisions at Play. ............................................................ 22
  B.  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the Decision of this Court in
     Bafna Motors. ............................................................................................. 39
        i.   Factual Scenario in Bafna Motors. ...................................................................... 44
        ii. Ratio of the Decision of Bafna Motors. .............................................................. 47
              a. Position of Law prevailing prior to the Amendment of  Section 13(8)  of
                 the SARFAESI Act. ........................................................................................ 48
              b. The 2016 Amendment to  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the
                 Contradictory Views on the subject. .......................................................... 58
              c. Effect of the 2016 Amendment on the Right of Redemption under
                  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. ............................................................ 77
  C. How the decision of this Court in Bafna Motors should be
  understood? ....................................................................................................... 81
        i.   There cannot be any artificial distinction in the right of redemption under
              Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act for different modes of transfer. ........... 82
              a. Scheme for sale of Immovable Secured Asset under  Section 13(8)  of the
                 SARFAESI Act read with Rule(s) 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules. ...... 82


                                                                                                            Page 1 of 139 
       ii. There is only a single Notice of Sale required under Rule 8(6) of the
           SARFAESI Rules for transfer of secured asset, by lease, assignment or sale.
           ............................................................................................................................. 101
             a.       Contradictory Views of the High Court on the subject. .................... 102
             b.       The Scheme under the SARFAESI Rules envisages one single
                      composite Notice of Sale of Immovable Secured Asset. .................... 105
       iii. What is the import of the expression “before the date of publication” used
            in  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. ........................................................... 125
  D. Whether, the Amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act is
     retrospective in nature? .......................................................................... 129
VI. FINAL CONCLUSION .......................................................................... 135




                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 139 
  1.   Leave granted.
 


 2.   Since the issues raised in both the captioned appeals are the same

     and the challenge is also to the self-same judgment and order passed

     by the High Court, those were taken up for hearing analogously and

     are being disposed of by this common judgment and order.
 

 3.   These appeals arise from the judgment and order passed by the High

     Court of Judicature at Madras dated 24.04.2023 in Writ Petition No.

     1882 of 2023 with Writ Miscellaneous Petition Nos. 1987-1988 of 2023

     respectively by which the High Court allowed the writ petition filed

     by the respondent Nos. 1 to 4 respectively herein and thereby the

     Sale Certificate issued by the respondent No. 5 in favour of the

     appellants (Auction Purchasers) dated 22.03.2021 came to be

     quashed and the respondent No. 5 Bank was directed to permit the

     respondent Nos. 1 to 4 herein to redeem the mortgage and close the

     loan account of the borrowers.
 

 I.   FACTUAL MATRIX

  4.   For the sake of convenience, the appellants herein shall be referred

     to as the Auction Purchasers. The respondent Nos. 1 to 4 respectively


                                                                Page 3 of 139 
     hereinafter referred to as the Original Borrowers and the respondent

     No. 5 shall hereinafter be referred to as the Bank.



  5.   The borrowers availed cash credit facilities on 06.01.2016 from the

     Bank to the tune of Rs. 5 crore and a term loan of Rs. 30 lakh

     respectively. The respondent Nos. 2 and 3 respectively herein stood

     as guarantors by creating equitable mortgage over various

     immovable properties including the “Subject Property” vide the

     Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deeds bearing Document No. 68

     of 2016 dated 06.1.2016 with the Sub Registrar Office, Dharapuram

     for the purpose of securing the repayment of the credit facilities.



  6.   The description of the subject property is as under: -


            “Vacant dry land to an extent of 1.92 acres in Old S.F. NO. 540,
          541 and New S.F. No.476/2, Dharapuram Alangiyam Road,
          Chitraravuthanpalayam, Dharapuram Taluk, Triuppur District.
            Boundaries:
            On the South by : East West in RS No. 535  
            On the West by: 0.89 acres of land belonging to Nachimuthu
           Gounder in RSNo. 476/2 
          On the North by : Land belonging to Kuppusamy Gounder in RS
          No. 476/1.
            On the East by: Land belonging to Palanisamy and Vallinayaki
          in RSNo. 475/3.”



                                                                   Page 4 of 139 
  7.    It may not be out of place to state at this stage that the respondent

      nos. 3 and 4 respectively herein are the son and daughter in law

      respectively of the respondent No. 2 who had executed guarantees

      to secure repayment of the credit facilities availed by KPK Oils

      Limited i.e., Original Borrowers.
 
 

  8.    On 31.12.2019, the borrower’s auction was classified as a Non-

        Performing Asset (NPA) by the Bank due to default in repayment of

      the outstanding dues.
 
 
  9.    On 12.02.2020, the Bank issued a notice under  Section 13(2)  of the

      Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets             and

      Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (for short, the

      “ SARFAESI Act ”) for the outstanding dues of INR 3,96,15,672

      payable as on 31.12.2019.
 
 
  10.   It is not in dispute that the respondent Nos. 1 to 4 respectively had

      not preferred any representation under  Section 13(3A)  of the

      SARFAESI Act.
 
 


                                                                 Page 5 of 139 
  11.   On 28.10.2020, the Bank issued notice under  Section 13(4)  of the

      SARFAESI Act seeking to take over the possession of the secured

      asset for the debt amount of INR 4,39,82,862.20 due and payable as

      on 30.09.2020.
 
 

  12.   On 31.10.2020, the Bank published Possession Notice in two

      newspapers, namely, “New Indian Express” in English and

      “Dinamani” in vernacular language.
 
 

  13.   On 28.12.2020, the MD and Partner of the Borrower i.e., the

      respondent No. 4 herein filed S.A. No. 5 and 7 of 2020 respectively

      under  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act challenging the Possession

      Notice dated 28.10.2020 before the DRT, Coimbatore.



  14.   On 22.01.2021, the Bank issued an Auction Sale Notice accordance

      with Rule 8 read with Rule 9 of the Security Interest (Enforcement)

      Rules, 2002, (for short, the “SARFAESI Rules”) for sale of the

      secured subject property for recovery of INR 4,55,64,590.20 due and

      payable as on 31.12.2020.
 
 


                                                               Page 6 of 139 
  15.   On 24.01.2021, the aforesaid Auction Sale Notice of the subject

      immovable property was also published in the “New Indian

      Express” and “Dinamani” newspapers respectively.



  16.   Sometime in February 2021, the borrowers along with Shri

      Palanisami filed S.A. No. 160 of 2021 under  Section 17  of the

      SARFAESI Act challenging the aforesaid Auction Sale Notice before

      the DRT, Coimbatore.
 
 

  17.   On 26.02.2021, the appellants herein participated and successfully

      bid in Auction Sale for sale consideration of Rs. 1,25,60,000/-. On

      20.03.2021, the appellants herein deposited the entire sale

      consideration of INR 1,25,60,000 with the Bank.



  18.   On 22.03.2021, upon payment of the entire sale consideration the

      Bank issued a Sale Certificate in favour of the appellants.



  19.   The sale consideration received by the Bank was appropriated

      towards the outstanding loan amount. In March 2021, after the sale

      came to be confirmed the borrowers paid a sum of Rs. 2,88,00,000


                                                                     Page 7 of 139 
      towards the outstanding dues under the loan. It is pertinent to note

      that at the relevant point of time an amount of INR 61,91,000 was

      still outstanding towards the loan amount.
 
 

  A.    Proceedings before the DRT.
 
 

  20.   After the completion of sale and issuance of the Sale Certificate, the

      DRT passed an order of status quo dated 26.03.2021. Since the

      appellants herein were not made party to the proceedings before the

      DRT, the DRT vide order dated 26.03.2021 proceeded to pass an

      order of status quo despite the fact that the appellants herein were

      not made party in the said proceedings. Later an application for

      impleadment was filed by the appellants in the proceedings before

      the DRT.
 
 

  21.   On 07.05.2021, the borrowers paid an amount of INR 62,74,123.74

      towards the outstanding dues for releasing the other properties.




                                                                 Page 8 of 139 
  22.   On 07.05.2021, the Bank closed the loan account of the borrowers

      after appropriating a sum of INR 1,25,60,000 received by it out of the

      sale consideration on auction of the secured assets as aforesaid.



  23.   On 14.07.2021, the application for impleadment filed by the

      appellant came to be allowed.
 
 

  24.   On 07.12.2021, 14.03.2021, 01.06.2022, 24.06.2022 and 11.07.2022

      respectively, adjournments were sought in S.A. No. 160 of 2021 by

      the borrowers. Once again on 06.05.2022, 01.06.2022, 24.06.2022, and

      11.07.2022 respectively, adjournments were sought in S.A. No. 517

      of 2020.
 
 

  25.   On 19.01.2023, the DRT, Coimbatore dismissed the SA No. 517 of

      2020 wherein the Possession Notice under  Section 13(4)  of the

      SARFAESI Act was under challenge. On the very same day and date

      the DRT by a separate judgment dismissed the S.A. No. 160 of 2021

      wherein the Sale Notice dated 22.01.2021 was under challenge.




                                                                 Page 9 of 139 
  II.    IMPUGNED ORDER



   26.   The borrowers without availing the alternative statutory remedy of

       preferring statutory appeal before the Appellate Tribunal went to

       the High Court and preferred Writ Petition No. 1882 of 2023, seeking

       to challenge the Sale Certificate dated 22.03.2021 for the first time.



   27.   The High Court vide order dated 24.01.2023 issued notice and

       directed that status quo be maintained as the borrowers were ready

       and willing to clear the outstanding dues by paying INR 50,00,000

       by 25.01.2023 and the balance amount within a period of next seven

       working days.
 
 

   28.   On 24.01.2023, the borrowers deposited INR 50,00,000 with the

       Bank. Another demand draft of INR 92,01,158 dated 31.01.2023 was

       deposited by them with the Bank.
 
 

    29.   The High Court allowed the writ petition holding that the issue as

       regards the right to redemption under  Section 13(8)  of the

       SARFAESI Act was no long res integra in view of the decision of this


                                                                   Page 10 of 139 
      Court in  Mathew Varghese v. Amritha Kumar and Ors.  reported in

      (2014) 5 SCC 610. 
 
 

  30.   The High Court while allowing the writ petition filed by the

      borrowers held as under:
 
           “10. Thus, in spite of the authoritative pronouncement of the
          Hon-ble Supreme Court of India, the DRT has been time and
          again holding that the right of redemption is lost on the fall of the
          hammer as per  Section 13(8)  which is legally unsustainable and
          therefore only in the extraordinary circumstances, as the
          question of law has to be made clear this writ petition is
          entertained by this Court and therefore, the objection on the
          ground of alternative remedy, though is a valid objection and is
          also followed by this Court generally in relegating the parties
          only to the DRT, in view of the above peculiar and extraordinary
          circumstance, and because the contention of the borrower /
          guarantors was not on air, but by paying the entire sum
          outstanding to the bank, as an exceptional case this writ petition
          is entertained by this Court and accordingly we over rule the said
          objection raised on behalf of the respondents.
 
           11. It is the objection of the respondent bank that initially when
          the petitioners paid a sum of Rs.2,88,00,000/~ in the month of
          March 2021 and thereafter Rs.62,74,123.74/~ on 17.05.2021, by
          accepting the sale of the property and by closing the loan account
          is concerned, except for the bald averment in Para 5 of the counter
          affidavit, no material whatsoever is produced before this Court.
            If such is the case, there would have been written
          communications to that effect on either side. Besides, it could be
          seen that even in the interim order dated 26.03.2021 was passed
          by the DRT, the following has been stated;
 
           Learned counsel for the Respondent Bank submitted that the
          property is sold on the scheduled date of auction and the Sale
          Certificate is also issued. However, the Sale Certificate is not

                                                                       Page 11 of 139 
          registered as of now. The Applicant also paid substantial amount
          of dues of about 50% of the amount claimed.
 
           The Applicant having paid a substantial amount of about 50% of
          the claim amount, this Tribunal is of the view that a status-quo
          order is required to be passed in the interest of justice. Hence,
          there shall be an order of status quo as of today. Meanwhile, the
          Applicant directed to initiate steps to implead the auction
          purchaser in this case.
 
           12. Therefore, had the petitioner agreed for the same and remitted
          Rs.2,88,00,000/- in the month of March 2021, the same would
          have been brought to the notice of the DRT also and an order of
          status quo not to register the sale certificate would not have been
          granted. Therefore when the borrower, for some reasons, did not
          repay the loan promptly, but however manages to pay the entire
          amount as claimed by the respondent bank even at the last
          minute, the same cannot be rejected on technical reasons, as the
          very purpose of the law of mortgage is to create security for the
          loan and not to result in the ownership of the property being
          transferred.
 
           13. While we overrule the objections on behalf of the respondents,
          we hold that the auction purchasers will be entitled for the return
          of the entire sum of Rs.1,25,60,000/- paid by them and they will
          also be entitled to interest at the rate of 9% per annum from the
          date of remitting the amounts till the date of repayment. It goes
          without saying that it is only the writ petitioners / borrowers who
          have to make good the said interest amount.”



  31.   The High Court ultimately issued the following directions in para

      14 which reads thus:
 
           “14. In the result,
             (a) The writ petition is allowed and the impugned sale certificate
          dated 22.03.2021 issued by the first respondent in favour of the
          respondents 3 to 11 stands quashed.
 

                                                                     Page 12 of 139 
              (b)The first respondent is directed to close the Loan A/c
             No.136700150950167 as the entire due amount is already paid;
 
              (c)The first respondent shall also issue due receipt for the
             discharge of mortgage and the same shall be presented before the
             appropriate Sub Registrar;
 
              (d)The first respondent bank is directed to refund the entire sum
             of Rs.1,25,60,000/~ to the respondents 3 to 11 within one week
             from the date of receipt of a copy of this order;
 
              (e)The first respondent bank shall also calculate the interest at the
             rate of 9% per annum on the said amount paid by the auction
             purchasers from the date of the respective remittance of the
             amount till the date of repayment and intimate the same by
             writing to the petitioners within one week thereafter.
 
              (f)Upon receipt of the written communication from the first
             respondent bank, the entire interest amount shall be remitted to
             the first respondent bank within one week therefrom by the writ
             petitioners and the first respondent bank shall pay out the same
             to the respondents 3 to 11;
 
              (g)It is made clear that if the writ petitioners default in the
             payment of interest as aforesaid within the aforesaid time the writ
             petition shall stand dismissed automatically without any further
             reference to this Court.”


    32.   In such circumstances  referred to above , the auction purchasers are

        here before this Court with the present appeal.
 



 III.    SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES




                                                                          Page 13 of 139 
A.    Submissions on behalf of the appellants.



   33.   Mr. K.S. Mahadevan, the learned counsel appearing for the Auction

      Purchasers vehemently submitted that the High Court committed an

      egregious error in entertaining the writ petition and passing the

      impugned judgment and order. He would submit that the issues

      involved in the present appeal are now covered by a decision of this

      Court in  Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Private Ltd.  reported

      in (2024) 2 SCC 1. 
 


 34.    In such circumstances  referred to above , the learned counsel would

      submit that there being merit in his appeal the same may be allowed

      and the impugned judgment and order be quashed. 
 

 B.    Submissions on behalf of the borrowers.
 


  35.   Mr. Huzefa Ahmedi, the learned counsel appearing for the

      borrowers while opposing this appeal vehemently submitted

      that the ratio or rather the principles enunciated in  Bafna

      Motors  (supra) are not applicable in the facts and circumstances

      of the present case. He would submit that in the case in hand the


                                                                Page 14 of 139 
       loan was obtained on 06.01.2016 whereas  Section 13(8)  came to

       be amended with effect from 01.09.2016. He would submit that

       the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act would not have

       retrospective operation. He would submit that no error not to

       speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed

       by the High Court in passing the impugned order. 
 
  36.    In such circumstances  referred to above , the learned counsel

       would submit that there being no merit in this appeal the same

       may be dismissed. 
 

 IV.    ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION



   37.   Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and

       having gone through the materials on record the only question that

       falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any

       error in passing the impugned judgment and order?
 


 V.     ANALYSIS



 A.    Legislative History and Scheme of the SARFAESI Act.



                                                               Page 15 of 139 
i.    The impetus behind enactment of the  SARFAESI Act .



  38.   Till early 1990s, the civil suits were being filed for recovery of the

      dues of banks and financial institutions under the Act 1882 and  the

      Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (“ CPC ”). Due to various difficulties

      the banks and financial institutions had to face in recovering loans

      and enforcement of securities, the Parliament enacted the  Recovery

      of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993  (for short,

      the “RDBFI Act”).
 


 39.   On account of lack of infrastructure and manpower, the regular civil

      courts were not in a position to cope up with the speed in the

      adjudication of recovery cases.  In the light of recommendations of

      the Tiwari Committee the special tribunals came to be set up under

      the provisions of the RDBFI Act  referred to above  for the recovery of

      huge accumulated NPA of the Bank loans. 
 

 40.   On the continuing rise in number of Non-Performing Assets (NPA)

      at banks and other financial institutions in India; a poor rate of loan

      recovery and the failure of the existing legislation in redressing the

      difficulties of recovery by banks; the Narasimham Committee I &amp; II

                                                                 Page 16 of 139 
      and Andyarujina Committee were constituted by the Government

      for examining and suggesting banking reforms in India. These

      Committees in their reports observed that one out of every five

      borrower was a defaulter, and that due to the long and tedious

      process of existing frame work of law and the overburdening of

      existing forums including the specialised tribunals under the 1993

      Act, any attempt of recovery with the assistance of court/tribunal

      often rendered the secured asset nearly worthless due to the long

      delays. In this background the Committees thus, proposed new laws

      for securitisation in order to permit banks and financial institutions

      to hold securities and sell them in a timely manner without the

      involvement of the courts.
 


 41.   On the recommendations of the Narasimham Committee and

      Andyarujina Committee, the SARFAESI Act was enacted to

      empower the banks and financial institutions to take possession of

      the securities and to sell them without intervention of the court.
 


 42.   The statement of objects and reasons for which the Act has been

      enacted reads as under: -
 

                                                                Page 17 of 139 
        “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

The financial sector has been one of the key drivers in India&#x27;s
efforts to achieve success in rapidly developing its economy.
While the banking industry in India is progressively complying
with the international prudential norms and accounting
practices there are certain areas in which the banking and
financial sector do not have a level playing field as compared to
other participants in the financial markets in the world. There is
no legal provision for facilitating securitisation of financial assets
of banks and financial institutions. Further, unlike international
banks, the banks and financial institutions in India do not have
power to take possession of securities and sell them. Our existing
legal framework relating to commercial transactions has not kept
pace with the changing commercial practices and financial sector
reforms. This has resulted in slow pace of recovery of defaulting
loans and mounting levels of non-performing assets of banks and
financial institutions. Narasimham Committee I and II and
Andhyarujina Committee constituted by the Central
Government for the purpose of examining banking sector reforms
have considered the need for changes in the legal system in
respect of these areas. These Committees, inter alia, have
suggested enactment of a new legislation for securitisation and
empowering banks and financial institutions to take possession
of the securities and to sell them without the intervention of the
court. Acting on these suggestions, the Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated on the 21st June,
2002 to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of financial
assets and enforcement of security interest and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto. The provisions of the
Ordinance would enable banks and financial institutions to
realise long-term assets, manage problem of liquidity, asset
liability mismatches and improve recovery by exercising powers
to take possession of securities, sell them and reduce
nonperforming assets by adopting measures for recovery or
reconstruction.&quot;
 



                                                              Page 18 of 139 
  43.   This Court in  Mardia Chemicals Ltd. &amp; Ors. v. Union of India &amp; Ors . 
 
       reported in (2004) 4 SCC 311, examined the history and legislative

      backdrop that ultimately led to the enactment of the  SARFAESI Act 

      as under: -
 
            “34. Some facts which need to be taken note of are that the banks
           and the financial institutions have heavily financed the
           petitioners and other industries. It is also a fact that a large sum
           of amount remains unrecovered. Normal process of recovery of
           debts through courts is lengthy and time taken is not suited for
           recovery of such dues. For financial assistance rendered to the
           industries by the financial institutions, financial liquidity is
           essential failing which there is a blockade of large sums of
           amounts creating circumstances which retard the economic
           progress followed by a large number of other consequential ill
           effects. Considering all these circumstances, the  Recovery of
           Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act  was enacted
           in 1993 but as the figures show it also did not bring the desired
           results. Though it is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that it
           so happened due to inaction on the part of the Governments in
           creating Debts Recovery Tribunals and appointing presiding
           officers, for a long time. Even after leaving that margin, it is to
           be noted that things in the spheres concerned are desired to move
           faster. In the present-day global economy it may be difficult to
           stick to old and conventional methods of financing and recovery
           of dues. Hence, in our view, it cannot be said that a step taken
           towards securitisation of the debts and to evolve means for faster
           recovery of NPAs was not called for or that it was
           superimposition of undesired law since one legislation was
           already operating in the field, namely, the  Recovery of Debts Due
           to Banks and Financial Institutions Act . It is also to be noted that
           the idea has not erupted abruptly to resort to such a legislation.
           It appears that a thought was given to the problems and the
           Narasimham Committee was constituted which recommended
           for such a legislation keeping in view the changing times and
           economic situation whereafter yet another Expert Committee was
           constituted, then alone the impugned law was enacted. Liquidity
           of finances and flow of money is essential for any healthy and
                                                                       Page 19 of 139 
growth-oriented economy. But certainly, what must be kept in
mind is that the law should not be in derogation of the rights
which are guaranteed to the people under the Constitution. The
procedure should also be fair, reasonable and valid, though it may
vary looking to the different situations needed to be tackled and
object sought to be achieved.
                   xxx             xxx         xxx

  36. In its Second Report, the Narasimham Committee observed
that NPAs in 1992 were uncomfortably high for most of the
public sector banks. In Chapter VIII of the Second Report the
Narasimham Committee deals about legal and legislative
framework and observed:
 

      “8.1. A legal framework that clearly defines the rights
     and liabilities of parties to contracts and provides for
     speedy resolution of disputes is a sine qua non for
     efficient trade and commerce, especially for financial
     intermediation. In our system, the evolution of the
     legal framework has not kept pace with changing
     commercial practice and with the financial sector
     reforms. As a result, the economy has not been able to
     reap the full benefits of the reforms process. As an
     illustration, we could look at the scheme of mortgage in
     the  Transfer of Property Act , which is critical to the
     work of financial intermediaries….”


One of the measures recommended in the circumstances was to
vest the financial institutions through special statutes, the power
of sale of the assets without intervention of the court and for
reconstruction of assets. It is thus to be seen that the question of
non-recoverable or delayed recovery of debts advanced by the
banks or financial institutions has been attracting attention and
the matter was considered in depth by the Committees specially
constituted consisting of the experts in the field. In the prevalent
situation where the amounts of dues are huge and hope of early
recovery is less, it cannot be said that a more effective legislation
for the purpose was uncalled for or that it could not be resorted
to. It is again to be noted that after the Report of the Narasimham

                                                             Page 20 of 139 
           Committee, yet another Committee was constituted headed by
           Mr Andhyarujina for bringing about the needed steps within the
           legal framework. We are therefore, unable to find much substance
           in the submission made on behalf of the petitioners that while the
            Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act 
           was in operation it was uncalled for to have yet another
           legislation for the recovery of the mounting dues. Considering
           the totality of circumstances and the financial climate world over,
           if it was thought as a matter of policy to have yet speedier legal
           method to recover the dues, such a policy decision cannot be
           faulted with nor is it a matter to be gone into by the courts to test
           the legitimacy of such a measure relating to financial policy.”


  44.   In this regard, reference may also be made to the following

      observations of this Court in the case of United Bank of India v.
 
       Satyawati Tondon &amp; Ors. reported in (2010) 8 SCC 110 which laid

      emphasis on the need for an expeditious mechanism for recovery of

      debts as the impetus for the enactment of the  SARFAESI Act . The

      relevant observations read as under: -
 
            “1. [...] With a view to give impetus to the industrial
           development of the country, the Central and State Governments
           encouraged the banks and other financial institutions to
           formulate liberal policies for grant of loans and other financial
           facilities to those who wanted to set up new industrial units or
           expand the existing units. Many hundred thousand took
           advantage of easy financing by the banks and other financial
           institutions but a large number of them did not repay the amount
           of loan, etc. Not only this, they instituted frivolous cases and
           succeeded in persuading the civil courts to pass orders of
           injunction against the steps taken by banks and financial
           institutions to recover their dues. Due to lack of adequate
           infrastructure and non-availability of manpower, the regular
           courts could not accomplish the task of expeditiously

                                                                        Page 21 of 139 
           adjudicating the cases instituted by banks and other financial
           institutions for recovery of their dues. As a result, several
           hundred crores of public money got blocked in unproductive
           ventures.
 

            2. In order to redeem the situation, the Government of India
           constituted a committee under the Chairmanship of Shri T.
           Tiwari to examine the legal and other difficulties faced by banks
           and financial institutions in the recovery of their dues and
           suggest remedial measures. The Tiwari Committee noted that the
           existing procedure for recovery was very cumbersome and
           suggested that special tribunals be set up for recovery of the dues
           of banks and financial institutions by following a summary
           procedure. The Tiwari Committee also prepared a draft of the
           proposed legislation which contained a provision for disposal of
           cases in three months and conferment of power upon the
           Recovery Officer for expeditious execution of orders made by
           adjudicating bodies.”


ii.   Relevant Statutory Provisions at Play.
 


 45.    Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act contains the provisions relating to

      the enforcement of the security interest and the manner in which the

      same may be done by the secured creditor without the intervention

      of the court or tribunal in accordance with its provisions. The said

      provision reads as under: -
 
            “13. Enforcement of security interest.–
           (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 69 or  section
           69A  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), any
           security interest created in favour of any secured creditor may be
           enforced, without the intervention of the court or tribunal, by
           such creditor in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
 
                                                                      Page 22 of 139 
 (2) Where any borrower, who is under a liability to a secured
creditor under a security agreement, makes any default in
repayment of secured debt or any instalment thereof, and his
account in respect of such debt is classified by the secured creditor
as non-performing asset, then, the secured creditor may require
the borrower by notice in writing to discharge in full his
liabilities to the secured creditor within sixty days from the date
of notice failing which the secured creditor shall be entitled to
exercise all or any of the rights under sub-section (4).
 
      Provided that –
       (i) the requirement of classification of secured debt as
     non performing asset under this sub-section shall not
     apply to a borrower who has raised funds through issue
     of debt securities; and

       (ii) in the event of default, the debenture trustee shall
     be entitled to enforce security interest in the same
     manner as provided under this section with such
     modifications as may be necessary and in accordance
     with the terms and conditions of security documents
     executed in favour of the debenture trustee;
 
 (3) The notice referred to in sub-section (2) shall give details of
the amount payable by the borrower and the secured assets
intended to be enforced by the secured creditor in the event of non
payment of secured debts by the borrower.
 
 (3A) If, on receipt of the notice under sub-section (2), the
borrower makes any representation or raises any objection, the
secured creditor shall consider such representation or objection
and if the secured creditor comes to the conclusion that such
representation or objection is not acceptable or tenable, he shall
communicate within fifteen days of receipt of such representation
or objection the reasons for non-acceptance of the representation
or objection to the borrower: Provided that the reasons so
communicated or the likely action of the secured creditor at the
stage of communication of reasons shall not confer any right
upon the borrower to prefer an application to the Debts Recovery


                                                             Page 23 of 139 
Tribunal under  section 17  or the Court of District Judge under
section 17A.
 
 (4) In case the borrower fails to discharge his liability in full
within the period specified in sub-section (2), the secured creditor
may take recourse to one or more of the following measures to
recover his secured debt, namely:—

       (a) take possession of the secured assets of the borrower
     including the right to transfer by way of lease,
     assignment or sale for realising the secured asset;
 
      (b) take over the management of the business of the
     borrower including the right to transfer by way of
     lease, assignment or sale for realising the secured asset:
 
                Provided that the right to transfer by way of
     lease, assignment or sale shall be exercised only where
     the substantial part of the business of the borrower is
     held as security for the debt:
 
                Provided further that where the management
     of whole of the business or part of the business is
     severable, the secured creditor shall take over the
     management of such business of the borrower which is
     relatable to the security for the debt;
 
      (c) appoint any person (hereafter referred to as the
     manager), to manage the secured assets the possession
     of which has been taken over by the secured creditor;
       (d) require at any time by notice in writing, any person
     who has acquired any of the secured assets from the
     borrower and from whom any money is due or may
     become due to the borrower, to pay the secured creditor,
     so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the secured
     debt.
 
 (5) Any payment made by any person referred to in clause (d) of
sub-section (4) to the secured creditor shall give such person a
valid discharge as if he has made payment to the borrower.
 

                                                            Page 24 of 139 
 (5A) Where the sale of an immovable property, for which a
reserve price has been specified, has been postponed for want of a
bid of an amount not less than such reserve price, it shall be
lawful for any officer of the secured creditor, if so authorised by
the secured creditor in this behalf, to bid for the immovable
property on behalf of the secured creditor at any subsequent sale.
 
 (5B) Where the secured creditor, referred to in sub-section (5A),
is declared to be the purchaser of the immovable property at any
subsequent sale, the amount of the purchase price shall be
adjusted towards the amount of the claim of the secured creditor
for which the auction of enforcement of security interest is taken
by the secured creditor, under sub-section (4) of  section 13 .
 
 (5C) The provisions of  section 9  of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 (10 of 1949) shall, as far as may be, apply to the immovable
property acquired by secured creditor under sub-section (5A).
 
 (6) Any transfer of secured asset after taking possession thereof
or take over of management under sub-section (4), by the secured
creditor or by the manager on behalf of the secured creditor shall
vest in the transferee all rights in, or in relation to, the secured
such secured asset.
 
 (7) Where any action has been taken against a borrower under
the provisions of sub-section (4), all costs, charges and expenses
which, in the opinion of the secured creditor, have been properly
incurred by him or any expenses incidental thereto, shall be
recoverable from the borrower and the money which is received
by the secured creditor shall, in the absence of any contract to the
contrary, be held by him in trust, to be applied, firstly, in
payment of such costs, charges and expenses and secondly, in
discharge of the dues of the secured creditor and the residue of the
money so received shall be paid to the person entitled thereto in
accordance with his rights and interests.
 
 (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together
with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered
to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication
of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from


                                                            Page 25 of 139 
public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment
or sale of the secured assets,-
 
      (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of
     lease assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and
       (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
     creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or
     sale of the assets before tendering of such amount
     under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken
     by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or
     assignment or sale of such secured assets.
 
 (9) Subject to the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016, in the case of financing of a financial asset by more
than one secured creditors or joint financing of a financial asset
by secured creditors, no secured creditor shall be entitled to
exercise any or all of the rights conferred on him under or
pursuant to sub-section (4) unless exercise of such right is agreed
upon by the secured creditors representing not less than sixty per
cent. in value of the amount outstanding as on a record date and
such action shall be binding on all the secured creditors:
 
         Provided that in the case of a company in liquidation, the
amount realised from the sale of secured assets shall be
distributed in Act, 1956 (1 of 1956):
 
          Provided further that in the case of a company being
wound up on or after the commencement of this Act, the secured
creditor of such company, who opts to realise his security instead
of relinquishing his security and proving his debt under proviso
to sub-section (1) of  section 529  of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956), may retain the sale proceeds of his secured assets after
depositing the workmen’s dues with the liquidator in accordance
with the provisions of section 529A of that Act:
 
         Provided also that liquidator referred to in the second
proviso shall intimate the secured creditor the workmen’s dues in
accordance with the provisions of  section 529A  of the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and in case such workmen’s dues cannot
be ascertained, the liquidator shall intimate the estimated amount
of workmen’s dues under that section to the secured creditor and

                                                           Page 26 of 139 
in such case the secured creditor may retain the sale proceeds of
the secured assets after depositing the amount of such estimate
dues with the liquidator:
 
          Provided also that in case the secured creditor deposits
the estimated amount of workmen’s dues, such creditor shall be
liable to pay the balance of the workmen’s dues or entitled to
receive the excess amount, if any, deposited by the secured
creditor with the liquidator:
 
          Provided also that the secured creditor shall furnish an
undertaking to the liquidator to pay the balance of the workmen’s
dues, if any.
 
         Explanation.— For the purposes of this sub-
       section,—

       (a) “record date” means the date agreed upon by the
     secured creditors representing not less than sixty per
     cent. in value of the amount outstanding on such date;
 
      (b) “amount outstanding” shall include principal,
     interest and any other dues payable by the borrower to
     the secured creditor in respect of secured asset as per
     the books of account of the secured creditor.
 

 (10) Where dues of the secured creditor are not fully satisfied
with the sale proceeds of the secured assets, the secured creditor
may file an application in the form and manner as may be
prescribed to the Debts Recovery Tribunal having jurisdiction or
a competent court, as the case may be, for recovery of the balance
amount from the borrower.
 
 (11) Without prejudice to the rights conferred on the secured
creditor under or by this section, secured creditor shall be entitled
to proceed against the guarantors or sell the pledged assets
without first taking any of the measured specifies in clauses (a)
to (d) of sub-section (4) in relation to the secured assets under
this Act.
 

                                                             Page 27 of 139 
            (12) The rights of a secured creditor under this Act may be
           exercised by one or more of his officers authorised in this behalf
           in such manner as may be prescribed.
 
            (13) No borrower shall, after receipt of notice referred to in sub
           section (2), transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise (other than
           in the ordinary course of his business) any of his secured assets
           referred to in the notice, without prior written consent of the
           secured creditor.”


  46.   Rules 8 and 9 respectively of the SARFAESI Rules prescribe the

      procedure and formalities to be followed for the sale of immovable

      secured asset as per  Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act.
 


 47.   Rule 8 of the SARFAESI Rules stipulates the manner in which sale of

      an immovable secured asset may take place at the behest of the

      secured creditor, and reads as under: -
 
            “8. Sale of immovable secured assets.–
           (1) Where the secured asset is an immovable property, the
           authorised officer shall take or cause to be taken possession, by
           delivering a possession notice prepared as nearly as possible in
           Appendix IV to these rules, to the borrower and by affixing the
           possession notice on the outer door or at such conspicuous place
           of the property.
 
            (2) The possession notice as referred to in sub-rule (1) shall also
           be published, as soon as possible but in any case not later than
           seven days from the date of taking possession, in two leading
           newspaper one in vernacular language having sufficient
           circulation in that locality, by the authorised officer.
 



                                                                       Page 28 of 139 
 (2A) All notices under these rules may also be served upon the
borrower through electronic mode of service, in addition to the
modes prescribed under sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) of rule 8.
 
 (3) In the event of possession of immovable property is actually
taken by the authorised officer, such property shall be kept in his
own custody or in the custody of any person authorised or
appointed by him, who shall take as much care of the property in
his custody as a owner of ordinary prudence would, under the
similar circumstances, take of such property.
 
 (4) The authorised officer shall take steps for preservation and
protection of secured assets and insure them, if necessary, till
they are sold or otherwise disposed of.
 
 (5) Before effecting sale of the immovable property referred to in
sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the authorised officer shall obtain valuation
of the property from an approved valuer and in consultation with
the secured creditor, fix the reserve price of the property and may
sell the whole or any part of such immovable secured asset by any
of the following methods:-
 
      (a) by obtaining quotations from the persons dealing
     with similar secured assets or otherwise interested in
     buying the such assets; or
       (b) by inviting tenders from the public;
       (c) by holding public auction including through e-
     auction mode; or
       (d) by private treaty.
 
        Provided that in case of sale of immovable property in the
State of Jammu and Kashmir, the provision of  Jammu and
Kashmir Transfer of Property Act, 1977  shall apply to the person
who acquires such property in the State.
 
 (6) the authorised officer shall serve to the borrower a notice of
thirty days for sale of the immovable secured assets, under sub
rule (5):
 
          Provided that if the sale of such secured asset is being
effected by either inviting tenders from the public or by holding

                                                             Page 29 of 139 
           public auction, the secured creditor shall cause a public notice in
           the Form given in Appendix IV-A to be published in two leading
           newspapers including one in vernacular language having wide
           circulation in the locality.
 
            (7) every notice of sale shall be affixed on the conspicuous part of
           the immovable property and the authorised officer shall upload
           the detailed terms and conditions of the sale, on the web-site of
           the secured creditor, which shall include;
 
                 (a) the description of the immovable property to be sold,
                including the details of the encumbrances known to the
                secured creditor;
                  (b) the secured debt for recovery of which the property
                is to be sold;
                  (c) reserve price of the immovable secured assets below
                which the property may not be sold;
                  (d) time and place of public auction or the time after
                which sale by any other mode shall be completed;
                  (e) deposit of earnest money as may be stipulated by the
                secured creditor; (f) any other terms and conditions,
                which the authorised officer considers it necessary for
                a purchaser to know the nature and value of the
                property.
 
            (8) Sale by any methods other than public auction or public
           tender, shall be on such terms as may be settled between the
           secured creditors and the proposed purchaser in writing.”


  48.   On the other hand, Rule 9 of the SARFAESI Rules provides when the

      immovable property may be sold by the secured creditor, or put it

      simply, the time of sale along with the formalities by which such sale

      would be concluded. The said rule reads as under: -
 
            “9. Time of sale, issue of sale certificate and delivery of
           possession, etc.–

                                                                       Page 30 of 139 
(1) No sale of immovable property under these rules, in first
instance shall take place before the expiry of thirty days from the
date on which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers
as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6) of rule 8 or notice of
sale has been served to the borrower:
 
          Provided further that if sale of immovable property by
any one of the methods specified by sub-rule (5) of rule 8 fails and
sale is required to be conducted again, the authorised officer shall
serve, affix and publish notice of sale of not less than fifteen days
to the borrower, for any subsequent sale.
 
 (2) The sale shall be confirmed in favour of the purchaser who has
offered the highest sale price in his bid or tender or quotation or
offer to the authorised officer and shall be subject to confirmation
by the secured creditor:
 
         Provided that no sale under this rule shall be confirmed,
if the amount offered by sale price is less than the reserve price,
specified under sub-rule (5) of rule 8:
 
         Provided further that if the authorised officer fails to
obtain a price higher than the reserve price, he may, with the
consent of the borrower and the secured creditor effect the sale at
such price.
 
 (3) On every sale of immovable property, the purchaser shall
immediately, i.e. on the same day or not later than next working
day, as the case may be, pay a deposit of twenty five per cent. of
the amount of the sale price, which is inclusive of earnest money
deposited, if any, to the authorised officer conducting the sale and
in default of such deposit, the property shall be sold again; by the
purchaser to the authorised officer on or before the fifteenth day
of confirmation of sale of the immovable property or such
extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the
purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding
three months.
 
 (5) In default of payment within the period mentioned in sub-rule
(4), the deposit shall be forfeited to the secured creditor and the
property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit

                                                             Page 31 of 139 
all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it
may be subsequently sold.
 
 (6) On confirmation of sale by the secured creditor and if the
terms of payment have been complied with, the authorised officer
exercising the power of sale shall issue a certificate of sale of the
immovable property in favour of the purchaser in the Form given
in Appendix V to these rules.
 
 (7) Where the immovable property sold is subject to any
encumbrances, the authorised officer may, if he thinks fit, allow
the purchaser to deposit with him the money required to
discharge the encumbrances and any interest due thereon
together with such additional amount that may be sufficient to
meet the contingencies or further cost, expenses and interest as
may be determined by him.
 
          Provided that if after meeting the cost of removing
encumbrances and contingencies there is any surplus available
out of money deposited by the purchaser such surplus shall be
paid to the purchaser within fifteen days, from date of finalisation
of the sale.
 
 (8) On such deposit of money for discharge of the encumbrances,
the authorised officer shall issue or cause the purchaser to issue
notices to the persons interested in or entitled to the money
deposited with him and take steps to make, the payment
accordingly. (9) The authorised officer shall deliver the property
to the purchaser free from encumbrances known to the secured
creditor on deposit of money as specified in sub-rule (7) above.

(10) The certificate of sale issued under sub-rule (6) shall
specifically mention that whether the purchaser has purchased
the immovable secured asset free from any encumbrances known
to the secured creditor or not.”




                                                             Page 32 of 139 
  49.    Section 35  of the SARFAESI Act contains the overriding clause and

      provides that the Act shall override any other law which is

      inconsistent with its provisions, and reads as under: -

             “35. The provisions of this Act to override other laws.–
           The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding
           anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for
           the time being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue
           of any such law.”


  50.    Section 37  of the SARFAESI Act provides that the provisions of the

       SARFAESI Act  shall be in addition to the Acts mentioned in or and

      any other law for the time being in force and further that the other

      laws shall also be applicable alongside the  SARFAESI Act . The said

      provision reads as under: -
 
            “37. Application of other laws not barred.–
           The provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be
           in addition to, and not in derogation of, the  Companies Act, 1956 
           (1 of 1956), the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (42
           of 1956), the  Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
           (15 of 1992), the  Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
           Institutions Act, 1993  (51 of 1993) or any other law for the time
           being in force.”


   51.   This Court in  Madras Petrochem Ltd. &amp; Anr. v. Board  for Industrial

      and Financial Reconstruction &amp; Ors. reported in (2016) 4 SCC 1,

      recapitulated the object behind the enactment of the  SARFAESI Act 

      and in that context examined the purpose of  Sections 13 ,  35  and  37 

                                                                    Page 33 of 139 
respectively of the  SARFAESI Act  with the following observations

given as under: - 
 
      “16. It is important at this stage to refer to the genesis of these
     three legislations. Each of them deals with different aspects of
     recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions. Two of
     them refer to creditors&#x27; interests and how best to deal with
     recovery of outstanding loans and advances made by them on the
     one hand, whereas the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special
     Provisions) Act, 1985 , on the other hand, deals with certain
     debtors which are sick industrial companies [i.e. companies
     running industries named in the  Schedule to the Industries
     (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 ] and whether such
     “debtors” having become “sick”, are to be rehabilitated. The
     question, therefore, is whether the public interest in recovering
     debts due to banks and financial institutions is to give way to the
     public interest in rehabilitation of sick industrial companies,
     regard being had to the present economic scenario in the country,
     as reflected in parliamentary legislation.
 
                       xxx            xxx          xxx

       19. While this Act had worked for a period of about 7 years, the
      Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,
     1993  was brought into force, pursuant to various committee
     reports. [...]

       20.  The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
     Institutions Act, 1993  took away the jurisdiction of the courts
     and vested this jurisdiction in tribunals established by the Act so
     as to ensure speedy recovery of debts due to the banks and
     financial institutions mentioned therein.  This Act  also included
     one appeal to the Appellate Tribunal, and transfer of all suits or
     other proceedings pending before any court to tribunals set up
     under the Act.  The Act  contained a non obstante clause in
      Section 34  stating that its provisions will have effect
     notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other
     law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect
     by virtue of any other law. In the year 2000, this Act was
     amended so as to incorporate a new sub-section (2) in  Section 34 
                                                                Page 34 of 139 
together with a saving provision in sub-section (1). It is of some
interest to note that this Act was to be in addition to and not in
derogation of various  Financial Corporation Acts and the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 . Clearly,
therefore, the object of the 2000  Amendment to the Recovery of
Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993  was to
make the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
1985  prevail over it.
 
 21. Regard being had to the poor working of the  Recovery of
Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 , the
 Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002  was brought into
force in the year 2002. [...]

  22. This 2002 Act was brought into force as a result of two
committee reports which opined that recovery of debts due to
banks and financial institutions was not moving as speedily as
expected, and that, therefore, certain other measures would have
to be put in place in order that these banks and financial
institutions would better be able to recover debts owing to them.
 
                  xxx           xxx          xxx

   24. The “pivotal” provision, namely,  Section 13  of the said Act
makes it clear that banks and financial institutions would now
no longer have to wait for a tribunal judgment under the
 Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,
1993  to be able to recover debts owing to them. They could, by
following the procedure  laid down in   Section 13 , take direct
action against the debtors by taking possession of secured assets
and selling them; they could also take over the management of the
business of the borrower. They could also appoint any person to
manage the secured assets possession of which has been taken
over by them, and could require, at any time by notice in writing
to any person who has acquired any of the secured assets from the
borrower and from whom any money is due or may become due
from the borrower, to pay the secured creditor so much of the
money as is sufficient to pay the secured debt. 
 


                                                          Page 35 of 139 
            25. In order to further the objects of the  Securitisation and
           Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
           Interest Act, 2002 , the Act contains a non obstante clause in
            Section 35  and also contains various Acts in  Section 37  which
           are to be in addition to and not in derogation of the  Securitisation
           and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
           Security Interest Act, 2002 . Three of these Acts, namely, the
            Companies Act, 1956 , the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,
           1956  and the  Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 ,
           relate to securities generally, whereas the  Recovery of Debts Due
           to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993  relates to recovery
           of debts due to banks and financial institutions. Significantly,
           under  Section 41  of this Act, three Acts are, by the Schedule to
           this Act, amended. We are concerned with the third of such Acts,
           namely, the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
           1985 , in  Section 15(1)  of which two provisos have been added. It
           is the correct interpretation of the second of these provisos on
           which the fate of these appeals ultimately hangs.”

                                              (Emphasis supplied)


   52.    Furthermore, Madras Petrochem  (supra) made one another

      pertinent observation that Section(s) 35 and 37 respectively of the

       SARFAESI Act  form a unique scheme of overriding provisions,

      however the scope and ambit of  Section 37  is restricted only to the

      securities law. The relevant portion is reproduced as under: - 

             “39. This is what then brings us to the doctrine of harmonious
           construction, which is one of the paramount doctrines that is
           applied in interpreting all statutes. Since neither  Section 35  nor
            Section 37  of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
           Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 is subject
           to the other, we think it is necessary to interpret the expression
           “or any other law for the time being in force” in  Section 37 . If a
           literal meaning is given to the said expression,  Section 35  will

                                                                       Page 36 of 139 
          become completely otiose as all other laws will then be in addition
          to and not in derogation of the  Securitisation and Reconstruction
          of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
          2002 . Obviously this could not have been the parliamentary
          intendment, after providing in  Section 35  that the  Securitisation
          and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
          Security Interest Act, 2002  will prevail over all other laws that
          are inconsistent therewith. A middle ground has, therefore,
          necessarily to be taken. According to us, the two apparently
          conflicting sections can best be harmonised by giving meaning to
          both. This can only be done by limiting the scope of the expression
          “or any other law for the time being in force” contained in
           Section 37 . This expression will, therefore, have to be held to
          mean other laws having relation to the securities market only, as
          the  Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions
          Act, 1993  is the only other special law, apart from the
           Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
          Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 , dealing with
          recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions. On this
          interpretation also, the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special
          Provisions) Act, 1985  will not be included for the obvious reason
          that its primary objective is to rehabilitate sick industrial
          companies and not to deal with the securities market.”

                                            (Emphasis supplied)


  53.    In interpreting the various provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  and the

      SARFAESI Rules framed thereunder, one must be mindful of the

      observations made by this Court in  Mardia Chemical  (supra), which

      are significant.   This Court in  Mardia Chemical  (supra) observed that

      the provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  &amp; SARFAESI Rules must be

      interpreted keeping in mind the economic object which is sought to




                                                                     Page 37 of 139 
be achieved by the legislature, the relevant observations read as

under: - 
 
      “34. Some facts which need to be taken note of are that the banks
     and the financial institutions have heavily financed the
     petitioners and other industries. It is also a fact that a large sum
     of amount remains unrecovered. Normal process of recovery of
     debts through courts is lengthy and time taken is not suited for
     recovery of such dues. For financial assistance rendered to the
     industries by the financial institutions, financial liquidity is
     essential failing which there is a blockade of large sums of
     amounts creating circumstances which retard the economic
     progress followed by a large number of other consequential ill
     effects. Considering all these circumstances, the  Recovery of
     Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act  was enacted
     in 1993 but as the figures show it also did not bring the desired
     results. Though it is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that it
     so happened due to inaction on the part of the Governments in
     creating Debts Recovery Tribunals and appointing presiding
     officers, for a long time. Even after leaving that margin, it is to
     be noted that things in the spheres concerned are desired to move
     faster. In the present day global economy it may be difficult to
     stick to old and conventional methods of financing and recovery
     of dues. Hence, in our view, it cannot be said that a step taken
     towards securitisation of the debts and to evolve means for faster
     recovery of NPAs was not called for or that it was
     superimposition of undesired law since one legislation was
     already operating in the field, namely, the  Recovery of Debts Due
     to Banks and Financial Institutions Act . It is also to be noted that
     the idea has not erupted abruptly to resort to such a legislation.
     It appears that a thought was given to the problems and the
     Narasimham Committee was constituted which recommended
     for such a legislation keeping in view the changing times and
     economic situation whereafter yet another Expert Committee was
     constituted, then alone the impugned law was enacted. Liquidity
     of finances and flow of money is essential for any healthy and
     growth-oriented economy. But certainly, what must be kept in
     mind is that the law should not be in derogation of the rights
     which are guaranteed to the people under the Constitution. The
     procedure should also be fair, reasonable and valid, though it may
                                                                 Page 38 of 139 
           vary looking to the different situations needed to be tackled and
           object sought to be achieved.”
                                              (Emphasis supplied)


B.     Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the Decision of this
      Court in Bafna Motors.
 


 54.    In the present lis, we are concerned with sub- section 8  of  Section 13 

      of the SARFAESI Act  referred to above . At the cost of repetition, the

      relevant portion of the said provision is reproduced below for

      convenience: - 
 
            “13. Enforcement of security interest.–
           (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together
           with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered
           to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication
           of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from
           public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment
           or sale of the secured assets,-
 
                 (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of
                lease assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and

                  (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
                creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or
                sale of the assets before tendering of such amount
                under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken
                by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or
                assignment or sale of such secured assets.
 
                                              (Emphasis supplied)




                                                                      Page 39 of 139 
  55.   A plaint reading of  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act 

      reveals that the said provision is in two parts, being as under: -

        (i)    First, it enables the borrower to exercise his right of

             redemption upto a particular point of time by stipulating the

             time limit during which the borrower can tender all the dues

             with interest, costs and charges to the secured creditor;
 
       (ii)   Secondly, it enables the secured creditor to exercise its power

             to deal or dispose of the secured asset, by providing as to when

             the secured creditor can proceed to sell, auction, assign or lease

             the secured asset.
 


  56.   The entire impugned judgment of the High Court is based on the

      decision of this Court in  Mathew Varghese  (supra).  Section 13(8)  of

      the SARFAESI Act, prior to its amendment by Act 44 of 2016 (for

      short, the “2016 Amendment”), stipulated that, if the dues of the

      secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses

      incurred by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time

      before the date fixed for sale or transfer, the secured asset shall not

      be sold or transferred by the secured creditor, and no further steps

      shall be taken by him for transfer or sale of that secured asset. 


                                                                   Page 40 of 139 
  57.    In  the said decision  of this Court, while construing the scope of the

      pre-amended  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act , it was

      observed that any sale or transfer of a secured asset cannot take place

      without duly informing the borrower of the time and date of such

      sale or transfer, in order to enable the borrower to tender the dues of

      the secured creditor with all costs, charges and expenses; the ersthilw

      provision of  Section 13(8) , as it stood prior to the 2016 Amendment,

      clearly stipulates that the borrower retains his full right to redeem

      the property by tendering all the dues to the secured creditor, at any

      time before the date fixed for sale or transfer; and the right of

      redemption, conferred under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, is

      to repay the entire debt due to the secured creditor. 



  58.   The words “if the dues of the secured creditor”, used in  Section 13(8)  of

      the SARFAESI Act, would only mean the dues in its entirety, and not

      the price fetched on the sale of one of the secured assets in a public

      auction. The words “that secured asset” in  Section 13(8)  is preceded by

      the words “transfer or sale”, and even in case one of the secured assets

      is brought to sale, the borrower is obligated to repay the entire dues


                                                                   Page 41 of 139 
      of the secured creditor together with costs, charges and expenses

      before the date fixed for sale or transfer, to prevent the secured

      creditor from either selling or transferring, or from taking further

      steps for the transfer or sale of, that secured asset.



   59.   We may look into paragraphs 40 and 41 respectively of the judgment

      in  Mathew Varghese  (supra) which read as under: 
 
             “40. Reliance was also placed upon the decision in  Mardia
           Chemicals Ltd. vs. Union of India . In para 54, while dealing with
           the contention raised on behalf of the secured creditor that the
           right of redemption would be available to the mortgagor only if
           the amount due according to the secured creditor is deposited,
           this Court held as under: 
 
                 “54. …Shri Sibal, however, submits that it is the
                amount due according to the secured creditor which
                shall have to be deposited to redeem the property. May
                be so, some difference regarding the amount due may
                be there but it cannot be said that right of redemption
                of property is completely lost. In cases where no such
                dispute is there, the right can be exercised and in other
                cases the question of difference in amount may be kept
                open and got decided before sale of property”.
 
            41. Here again we find that even if there was some difference in
           the amount tendered by the borrower while exercising his right
           of redemption under  Section 13(8) , the question of difference in
           the amount should be kept open and can be decided subsequently,
           but on that score the right of redemption of the mortgagor cannot
           be frustrated. Elaborating the statement of law made therein, we
           wish to state that the endeavour or the role of a secured creditor
           in such a situation while resorting to any sale for the realisation
           of dues of a mortgaged asset, should be that the mortgagor is

                                                                      Page 42 of 139 
           entitled for some lenience, if not more to be shown, to enable the
           borrower to tender the amounts due in order to ensure that the
           constitutional right to property is preserved, rather than it being
           deprived of.”
                                              (Emphasis supplied)


  60.   The afore referred are the two paragraphs on which strong reliance

      has been placed on behalf of the borrowers. According to learned

      counsel appearing for the borrowers, the aforesaid paragraphs

      indicate that it is open to the borrower to pay the auction amount

      and secure release of that particular asset which is brought to sale.



   61.   All that has been held, in the aforesaid paragraphs of the judgment

      in  Mathew Varghese  (supra), is that, if there is some difference

      between the amount tendered by the borrower while exercising his

      right to redeem under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, the

      question of difference in the amount must be kept open for a decision

      subsequently but, on that score, the right of redemption of the

      mortgagor cannot be frustrated. The aforesaid observations of this

      Court only means that, if there is a minor dispute regarding the

      extent of dues payable to the secured creditor by the borrower, and

      if the borrower is ready and willing to redeem the entire amount due

      to the secured creditor, and pay the said sum as computed by them,

                                                                      Page 43 of 139 
      then the differential amount can be permitted to be paid later under

       Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act.   The law declared by this Court,

      in  Mathew Varghese  (supra), does not permit a borrower, after an

      auction is held, to come forward and tender payment of merely the

      auction amount for release of the auctioned secured asset. 



   62.   We shall now look into the decision of this Court in  Bafna Motors 

      (supra) wherein one of us, J.B. Pardiwala, J. authored the judgment. 

  63.    In  Bafna Motors  (supra) this Court held that a borrower only has a

      right to redeem the mortgage till the publication of Auction Notice

      under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. This Court analysed

      orders passed by various High Courts in interpreting the provisions

      of Section 13(8) of the SARFEASI Act, post the 2016 Amendment and

      the intent underlying the amendment. 
 
 
  i.    Factual Scenario in Bafna Motors.
 
 

  64.   The Union Bank of India had sanctioned credit facility to Bafna

      Motors (Mumbai) Private Limited in 2017 for INR 100 crore against

      which a security in the form of a simple mortgage was created over

      a parcel of land situated in Thane, Maharashtra. The Borrower

                                                               Page 44 of 139 
      defaulted in repayment and accordingly its loan account was

      declared as a Non-Performing Asset (NPA). The Bank issued a

      Demand Notice under  Section 13(2)  of the SARFAESI Act for

      repayment of the Loan amount, along with the interest, costs, etc, i.e.

      INR 123.83 crore. Due to failure to repay of the outstanding amount,

      the Bank proceeded to take possession of the Mortgaged Property.



  65.   The borrower challenged the Demand Notice before the DRT. The

      Bank attempted to auction the Mortgaged Property eight times

      during 2022-23. On June 14, 2023, the Bank auctioned the Mortgaged

      Property for a reserve price of INR 105 crore. Celir LLP participated

      in the auction and was declared as the successful bidder, and a sale

      confirmation letter was issued to the Purchaser by the Bank. The

      Purchaser also deposited 25% of the bid amount, which the Bank

      acknowledged.
 
 

  66.   The Borrower at this stage filed an interim application before the

      DRT for redemption of mortgage upon repayment of the

      Outstanding Amount. The IA was opposed by the Bank and the

      Purchaser. The Purchaser had deposited the balance amount


                                                                 Page 45 of 139 
      towards the Mortgaged Property, and the Bank was in receipt of the

      said amount (total Rs 105 crore). Upon hearing the arguments, the

      DRT reserved the IA for orders.
 
 

  67.   Pending the order of the DRT, the Borrower approached the High

      Court of Bombay by way of a writ petition under  Article 226  of the

       Constitution of India Act, 1950 , to direct the Bank to permit it

      (Borrower) to redeem the Mortgaged Property. The High Court

      allowed the borrower to redeem the Mortgaged Property upon

      payment of INR 25 crore on the same day and the balance amount

      within two weeks. Upon failure of the Borrower to abide by the

      directions of the High Court, the Mortgaged Property would be sold

      in favour of the Purchaser. The order was challenged by the

      Purchaser by way of a special leave petition before this Court.



  68.   The Purchaser argued that the right of redemption of the mortgagor

      stood extinguished upon publication of Auction Notice as per

      amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. Furthermore, once the

      sale is confirmed, the Bank is under a legal obligation to issue a sale

      certificate to the Purchaser.
 
 
                                                                 Page 46 of 139 
  69.   Contrary to the above, the Borrower contended that  Section 13(8)  of

      the SARFAESI Act does not deal with the right of redemption of

      mortgagor and in such circumstances,  Section 60  of the Transfer of

      Property Act, 1882 would be applicable.  Section 60  of the Transfer of

      Property Act has been interpreted to reserve the right of the

      mortgagor to redeem the property till the sale deed has been

      executed in favour of the third party.
 
 

ii.   Ratio of the Decision of Bafna Motors.
 
 

   70.   During the course of hearing, our attention was drawn to several

      decisions by different High Court, which, upon a reading of our

      judgment in  Bafna Motors  (supra) appear to not have fully

      appreciated the ratio that has been laid therein. A certain degree of

      ambiguity seems to persist as regards the precise point of time when

      the borrower’s right of redemption under  Section 13  sub-section (8)

      of the  SARFAESI Act  could be said to be extinguished, particularly

      in cases where the mode of transfer, sale etc. of the secured asset is

      by means other than a public auction. 
 
 
                                                                Page 47 of 139 
   71.   Thus, with a view to obviate any confusion, it would apposite to

      once again look into  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act 

      threadbare, in order to better understand, what has been conveyed

      in so many words by this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra).




a.    Position of Law prevailing prior to the Amendment of  Section
      13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. 
 
 


   72.   Prior to the amendment to  Section 13(8)  of SARFAESI Act, in the case

      of  Mathew Varghese  (supra) this Court had applied the principles

      pertaining to redemption of mortgage as enshrined in  Section 60  of

      the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, the “ TP Act ”) for

      construing the pre-amendment provision of Section 13(8) of the

      SARFEASI Act. 
 
 

  73.    Section 60  of the TP Act provides the general statutory right of the

      mortgagor to redeem the mortgage and reads as below: -

             “60. Right of mortgagor to redeem.–
           At any time after the principal money has become due, the
           mortgagor has a right, on payment or tender, at a proper time
           and place, of the mortgage-money, to require the mortgagee (a) to

                                                                    Page 48 of 139 
           deliver to the mortgagor the mortgage deed and all documents
           relating to the mortgaged property which are in the possession or
           power of the mortgage, (b) where the mortgage is in possession of
           the mortgaged property, to deliver possession thereof to the
           mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re-
           transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as
           he may direct, or to execute and (where the mortgage has been
           effected by a registered instrument) to have registered an
           acknowledgment in writing that any right in derogation of his
           interest transferred to the mortgage has been extinguished:
 
                    Provided that the right conferred by this section has not
           been extinguished by act of the parties or by decree of a Court.
 
                   The right conferred by this section is called a right to
           redeem and a suit to enforce it is called a suit for redemption.
 
                    Nothing in this section shall be deemed to render invalid
           any provision to the effect that, if the time fixed for payment of
           the principal money has been allowed to pass or no such time has
           been fixed, the mortgage shall be entitled to reasonable notice
           before payment or tender of such money.
 
                    Redemption of portion of mortgaged property.—
           Nothing in this section shall entitle a person interested in a share
           only of the mortgaged property to redeem his own share only, on
           payment of a proportionate part of the amount remaining due on
           the mortgage, except only where a mortgagee, or, if there are more
           mortgages than one, all such mortgages, has or have acquired, in
           whole or in part, the share of a mortgagor.”


   74.   This Court in  Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam &amp; Anr.  reported

      in (1997) 3 SCC 247, upon examining  Section 60  of the TP Act, held

      that the mortgagor’s right to redeem will be extinguished only after

      completion of sale by a registered deed, and made the following

      relevant observations reproduced below: - 
                                                                        Page 49 of 139  
  “28. The Rights and Liabilities of Mortgagor are dealt with in
 Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act. It is that at any time
after the principal money has become due, the mortgagor has a
right, on payment or tender, at a proper time and place, of the
mortgage-money, to require the mortgagee (a) to deliver to the
mortgagor the mortgage-deed and all documents relating to the
mortgaged property which are in the possession or power of the
mortgagee, (b) where the mortgagee is in possession of the
mortgaged property to deliver possession thereof to the
mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re-
transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as
he may direct, or to execute and to have registered an
acknowledgment in writing that any right in derogation of his
interest transferred to the mortgagee has been extinguished.
There is a proviso that the right conferred by this section has not
been extinguished by the act of the parties or by decree of a Court.
The right conferred by  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act
is called a right to redeem. Therefore, the said Section 60 provides
for a right of redemption provided that the right has not been
extinguished by the act of parties.
 
                  xxx            xxx           xxx

  33. In India, the word “transfer” is defined with reference to the
word “convey”. The word “transfer” in English law in its
narrower and more usual sense refers to the transfer of an estate
in land. Section 205 of the Law of Property Act in England
defines: “Conveyance” includes a mortgage, charge, lease, assent,
vesting declaration, vesting instrument. The word “conveys” in
 Section 5  of the Transfer of Property Act is used in the wider
sense of conveying ownership.
 
 34. The right of redemption which is embodied in  Section 60  of
the Transfer of Property Act is available to the mortgagor unless
it has been extinguished by the act of parties. The combined effect
of  Section 54  of the Transfer of Property Act and  Section 17  of
the Indian Registration Act is that a contract for sale in respect
of immovable property of the value of more than one hundred
rupees without registration cannot extinguish the equity of
redemption. In India it is only on execution of the conveyance
and registration of transfer of the mortgagor&#x27;s interest by

                                                            Page 50 of 139 
           registered instrument that the mortgagor&#x27;s right of redemption
           will be extinguished. The conferment of power to sell without
           intervention of the Court in a Mortgage Deed by itself will not
           deprive the mortgagor of his right to redemption. The extinction
           of the right of redemption has to be subsequent to the deed
           conferring such power. The right of redemption is not
           extinguished at the expiry of the period. The equity of redemption
           is not extinguished by mere contract for sale.
 
            35. The mortgagor&#x27;s right to redeem will survive until there has
           been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. In
           England a sale of property takes place by agreement but it is not
           so in our country. The power to sell shall not be exercised unless
           and until notice in writing requiring payment of the principal
           money has been served on the mortgagor. Further  Section 69(3) 
           of the Transfer of Property Act shows that when a sale has been
           made in professed exercise of such a power, the title of the
           purchaser shall not be impeachable on the ground that no case
           had arisen to authorise the sale. Therefore, until the sale is
           complete by registration the mortgagor does not lose right of
           redemption.
                              xxx           xxx           xxx

             37. In view of the fact that only on execution of conveyance,
           ownership passes from one party to another it cannot be held that
           the mortgagor lost the right of redemption just because the
           property was put to auction. The mortgagor has a right to redeem
           unless the sale of the property was complete by registration in
           accordance with the provisions of the  Registration Act .”

                                             (Emphasis supplied)


   75.   A similar view was taken by this Court in  L.K. Trust v. EDC Limited

      &amp; Ors.  reported in (2011) 6 SCC 780 wherein it was held that in India

      it is only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer

      of the mortgagor&#x27;s interest by a registered instrument that the

                                                                     Page 51 of 139 
mortgagor&#x27;s right of redemption embodied in  Section 60  of the TP

Act will get extinguished. It further observed that the conferment of

power to sell the mortgaged property without intervention of the

Court, in a mortgage deed, in itself, will not deprive the mortgagor

of his right of redemption under the said provision. The relevant

observations read as under: - 
 
      “53. On analysis of arguments advanced at the Bar, this Court
     finds that the proposition that in India it is only on execution of
     conveyance and the registration of transfer of the mortgagor&#x27;s
     interest by registered instrument that the mortgagor&#x27;s right of
     redemption stands extinguished is well settled. Further it is not
     the case of the appellant that a registered Sale Deed had been
     executed between the appellant-trust and the respondent No. 1
     pursuant to the Resolution passed by the respondent No. 1 and,
     therefore, in terms of  Section 54  of the Transfer of Property Act
     1882 no title relating to the disputed property had passed to the
     appellant at all.
 
       54. What is ruled in  Narandas Karsandas  (Supra) is that in
     India, there is no equity or right in property created in favour of
     the purchaser by the contract between the mortgagee and the
     proposed purchaser and in view of the fact that only on execution
     of conveyance, ownership passes from one party to another, it
     cannot be held that the mortgagor lost the right of redemption
     just because the property was put to auction. In this case, the
     respondent Housing Society, the mortgagor, had taken loan from
     the co-respondent Finance Society and mortgaged the property to
     it under an English mortgage. On default, the mortgagee
     exercised its right under the mortgage to sell the property
     without intervention of Court and after notice, put the property
     to sale by public auction. The appellant auction purchaser paid
     the sums due. Before the sale was completed by registration etc.
     the mortgagor sought to exercise his right of redemption by
     tendering the amount due. The appellant had based his case on

                                                                Page 52 of 139 
          the plea that in such a situation the mortgagee acts as agent of
          the mortgagor and hence binds him. 
 

            55. Rejecting the appeal, this Court has held that the right of
          redemption which is embodied in  Section 60  of the Transfer of
          Property Act is available to the mortgagor unless it has been
          extinguished by the act of parties or by decree of a court. What is
          held by this Court is that, in India it is only on execution of the
          conveyance and registration of transfer of the mortgagor&#x27;s
          interest by registered instrument that the mortgagor&#x27;s right of
          redemption will be extinguished but the conferment of power to
          sell the mortgaged property without intervention of the Court, in
          a mortgage deed, in itself, will not deprive the mortgagor of his
          right of redemption. This Court in the said case further explained
          that the extinction of the right of redemption has to be subsequent
          to the deed conferring such power and the right to redemption is
          not extinguished at the expiry of the period. This Court
          emphasized in  the said decision  that the equity of redemption is
          not extinguished by mere contract for sale.”

                                             (Emphasis supplied) 


  76.   The erstwhile provision of  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the

       SARFAESI Act , as originally enacted, read as under: -

            “13. Enforcement of security interest.–
          (8) If the dues of the secured creditor together with all costs,
          charges and expenses incurred by him are tendered to the secured
          creditor at any time before the date fixed for sale or transfer, the
          secured asset shall not be sold or transferred by the secured
          creditor, and no further step shall be taken by him for transfer or
          sale of that secured asset.”




                                                                      Page 53 of 139 
   77.   This Court examined the right of redemption of mortgage under the

       TP Act  vis-à-vis the  SARFAESI Act  for the first time in  Mathew

      Varghese  (supra). 
 
 

    78.   As already discussed in the foregoing paragraphs of this judgment,

      this Court in  Mathew Varghese  (supra), placing reliance on

       Narandas Karsondas  (supra) found no occasion for drawing any

      distinction between the principles enshrined in  Section 60  of the TP

      Act in respect of the sale of secured assets created by way of a

      secured interest in favour of the secured creditor under the

      provisions of the  SARFAESI Act , read along with the relevant Rules.

      It observed that since  Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act is nothing but

      a conferment of power upon the secured creditor to sell the security

      interest without the intervention of the court, the principles

      underlying  Section 60  of the TP Act would be attracted, since the

      provision of Section 60 applies with full rigour even in respect of sale

      of mortgage property without the intervention of court. The relevant

      observations read as under: -  
 
             “38. [...] a mere conferment of power to sell without intervention
           of the court in the mortgage deed by itself will not deprive the
           mortgagor of his right to redemption, that the extinction of the
           right of redemption has to be subsequent to the deed conferring

                                                                     Page 54 of 139 
such power, that the right of redemption is not extinguished at
the expiry of the period, that the equity of redemption is not
extinguished by mere contract for sale and that the mortgagor&#x27;s
right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of
sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. The ratio is also to the
effect that the power to sell should not be exercised unless and
until notice in writing requiring payment of the principal money
has been served on the mortgagor. The above proposition of law
of course was  laid down by  this Court in  Narandas Karsondas
[Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam , (1977) 3 SCC 247] while
construing  Section 60  of the TP Act. But as rightly contended by
Mr Shyam Divan, we fail to note any distinction to be drawn
while applying the abovesaid principles, even in respect of the sale
of secured assets created by way of a secured interest in favour of
the secured creditor under the provisions of the  SARFAESI Act ,
read along with the relevant Rules. We say so, inasmuch as, we
find that even while setting out the principles in respect of the
redemption of a mortgage by applying  Section 60  of the TP Act,
this Court has envisaged the situation where such mortgage deed
providing for resorting to the sale of the mortgage property
without the intervention of the Court. Keeping the said situation
in mind, it was held that the right of redemption will not get
extinguished merely at the expiry of the period mentioned in the
mortgage deed. It was also stated that the equity of redemption is
not extinguished by mere contract for sale and the most
important and vital principle stated was that the mortgagor&#x27;s
right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of
sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. The completion of sale,
it is stated, can be held to be so unless and until notice in writing
requiring payment of the principal money has been served on the
mortgagor. Therefore, it was held that until the sale is complete
by registration of sale, the mortgagor does not lose the right of
redemption. It was also made clear that it was erroneous to
suggest that the mortgagee would be acting as the agent of the
mortgagor in selling the property. 
 

 39. When we apply the above principles stated with reference to
 Section 60  of the TP Act in respect of a secured interest in a
secured asset in favour of the secured creditor under the
provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  and the relevant Rules

                                                             Page 55 of 139 
          applicable, under  Section 13(1) , a free hand is given to a secured
          creditor to resort to a sale without the intervention of the court
          or tribunal. However, under  Section 13(8) , it is clearly stipulated
          that the mortgagor i.e. the borrower, who is otherwise called as a
          debtor, retains his full right to redeem the property by tendering
          all the dues to the secured creditor at any time before the date
          fixed for sale or transfer. Under sub-section (8) of  Section 13 , as
          noted earlier, the secured asset should not be sold or transferred
          by the secured creditor when such tender is made by the borrower
          at the last moment before the sale or transfer. The said sub-section
          also states that no further step should be taken by the secured
          creditor for transfer or sale of that secured asset. We find no
          reason to state that the principles laid down with reference to
           Section 60  of the TP Act, which is general in nature in respect of
          all mortgages, can have no application in respect of a secured
          interest in a secured asset created in favour of a secured creditor,
          as all the abovestated principles apply on all fours in respect of a
          transaction as between the debtor and secured creditor under the
          provisions of the  SARFAESI Act .
 

           41. [...] even if there was some difference in the amount tendered
          by the borrower while exercising his right of redemption under
           Section 13(8) , the question of difference in the amount should be
          kept open and can be decided subsequently, but on that score the
          right of redemption of the mortgagor cannot be frustrated.
            Elaborating the statement of law made therein, we wish to state
          that the endeavour or the role of a secured creditor in such a
          situation while resorting to any sale for the realisation of dues of
          a mortgaged asset, should be that the mortgagor is entitled for
          some lenience, if not more to be shown, to enable the borrower to
          tender the amounts due in order to ensure that the constitutional
          right to property is preserved, rather than it being deprived of.”

                                             (Emphasis supplied)


  79.     In  Dwarika Prasad v. State of Uttar Pradesh  reported in (2018) 5

      SCC 491, this Court considered the unamended  Section 13(8)  of the


                                                                      Page 56 of 139 
       SARFAESI Act , keeping in mind the decision in the case of  Mathew

      Varghese  (supra) and held that the right of redemption of mortgage

      is not lost until there is a transfer by a registered instrument. The

      relevant observations read as under: -  
 
            “8. [...] These provisions have fallen for interpretation before this
           Court in Mathew Varghese. Dwelling on  Section 60  of the
           Transfer of the Property Act, 1882 this Court held that the right
           of redemption is available to a mortgagor unless it stands
           extinguished by an act of parties. The right of the mortgagor to
           redeem the property survives until there has been a transfer of the
           mortgagor&#x27;s interest by a registered instrument of sale. [...]”


  80.    In, yet one another decision of this Court in  Allokam Peddabbayya

      &amp; Anr. v. Allahabad Bank &amp; Ors.  reported in (2017) 8 SCC 272, a

      similar view was taken, that the right of redemption is lost once the

      property is put to auction and a sale certificate is issued in lieu

      thereof. The relevant observations made therein are as under: - 

             “23. The aforesaid discussion leads to the conclusion that the
           plaintiffs lost the right to sue for redemption of the mortgaged
           property by virtue of the proviso to  Section 60  of the Act, no
           sooner that the mortgaged property was put to auction-sale in a
           suit for foreclosure and sale certificate was issued in favour of
           Defendant 2. There remained no property mortgaged to be
           redeemed. The right to redemption could not be claimed in the
           abstract.”


   81.   Prior to the amendment to  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the

       SARFAESI Act , the position of law that prevailed, as per the decision

                                                                        Page 57 of 139 
      of  Mathew Varghese  (supra), was that the principle underlying

       Section 60  of the TP Act was extended and applied to  Section 13(8) 

      of the SARFAESI Act to hold that the borrower has absolute right to

      redeem the property by repaying the debt before the sale of such

      property. 
 
 

  82.   Thus, prior to the amendment of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act,

      this Court consistently held, that the borrower shall continue to have

      a right of redemption of mortgage until the execution of the

      conveyance of the secured asset by way of a registered instrument.



   83.   The reason which impelled this Court in  Mathew Varghese  (supra),

      in holding so, was because it found no inconsistency between the

      unamended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the general right

      of redemption under  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act.




b.    The 2016 Amendment to  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the
      Contradictory Views on the subject. 
 
 
  84.   On 1st September, 2016, the Enforcement of Security Interest and

      Recovery of Debt Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment)


                                                                Page 58 of 139 
      Act, 2016 was enacted, which inter-alia amended sub- section 8  of

       Section 13  of the SARFAESI Act, and substituted the words “any time

      before the date fixed for sale or transfer” of the original provision with “at

      any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or

      inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by

      way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets”. The amended

      provision of  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act , now

      reads as under: -
 
            “13. Enforcement of security interest.–
           (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together
           with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered
           to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication
           of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from
           public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment
           or sale of the secured assets,—


                   (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of
                 lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and

                   (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
                 creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or
                 sale of the assets before tendering of such amount
                 under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken
                 by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or
                 assignment or sale of such secured assets.”



  85.   Over a period of time, many orders of different courts, inconsistent

      with each other had accumulated on the interpretation of the

                                                                       Page 59 of 139 
      amended  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act , that had

      made it very difficult to apply the correct principles of law as

      regards the right of redemption by the borrower under the

       SARFAESI Act .
 
 

    86.   The High Court of Andhra Pradesh in  Sri. Sai Annadhatha

      Polymers &amp; Anr. v. Canara Bank  rep. by its Branch Manager,

      Mandanapalle reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 178 took the view

      that as per  Mathew Varghese  (supra), under the unamended  Section

      13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the

      secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured

      asset. The court went on to say that the amended provisions of

       Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, however brought in a radical

      change inasmuch as the right of the borrower to redeem the secured

      asset would now stand extinguished thereunder on the very date of

      publication of the notice for public auction under Rule 9(1) of the

      SARFAESI Rules. The relevant observations made by the High

      Court are reproduced hereinbelow: -  
 
             “6. In terms of the amended provisions of  Section 13(8)  of the
           SARFAESI Act, the right of redemption given to the borrower
           would expire upon publication of such a notice. However, Rule
           8(6) of the Rules of 2002, as interpreted by the Supreme Court in

                                                                    Page 60 of 139 
 Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar  [(2014) 5 SCC 610],
stipulates that the thirty day notice period mentioned therein is
for the purpose of enabling the borrower to redeem his property.
Significantly, this provision remains unaltered. Therefore, this
statutory notice period of thirty days is sacrosanct and deviation
therefrom would curtail the statutory right of redemption
available to the borrower. However, in terms of the amended
 Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, once the notice under Rule
9 of the Rules of 2002 is published, the said right stands
extinguished. 
 
                  xxx             xxx          xxx

   20. In the light of the aforestated changes in the statutory scheme,
certain crucial aspects may be noted. As per the unamended
 Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to
redeem the secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of
such secured asset. Case law consistently held to the effect that a
sale or transfer is not completed until all the formalities are
completed and there is an effective transfer of the asset sold. In
consequence, the borrower&#x27;s right of redemption did not stand
terminated on the date of the auction sale of the secured asset
itself and remained alive till the transfer was completed in favour
of the auction purchaser, by registration of the sale certificate and
delivery of possession of the secured asset. The recent judgment
of the Supreme Court in  ITC LIMITED v. BLUE COAST
HOTELS LIMITED  also affirmed this legal position. 
 
 21. However, the amended provisions of  Section 13(8)  of the
SARFAESI Act bring in a radical change, inasmuch as the right
of the borrower to redeem the secured asset stands extinguished
thereunder on the very date of publication of the notice for public
auction under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002. In effect, the right
of redemption available to the borrower under the present
statutory regime stands drastically curtailed and would be
available only till the date of publication of the notice under Rule
9(1) of the Rules of 2002 and not till completion of the sale or
transfer of the secured asset in favour of the auction purchaser.
  [...]

                 xxx             xxx          xxx

                                                             Page 61 of 139 
              23. Therefore, even after the amendment of  Section 13(8)  of the
           SARFAESI Act, a secured creditor is bound to afford to the
           borrower a clear thirty day notice period under Rule 8(6) to
           enable him to exercise his right of redemption. In consequence, a
           notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002 cannot be published
           prior to expiry of this thirty day period in the new scenario, post
           amendment of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, as such right
           of redemption would stand terminated immediately upon
           publication of the sale notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002.
           The judgment of the Supreme Court in  CANARA BANK v. M.
           AMARENDER REDDY , which was rendered in the context of
           the unamended provisions, would therefore have no application
           to the post-amendment scenario in the light of the change brought
           about in  Section 13(8) . To sum up, the post-amendment scenario
           inevitably requires a clear thirty day notice period being
           maintained between issuance of the sale notice under Rule 8(6)
           of the Rules of 2002 and the publication of the sale notice under
           Rule 9(1) thereof, as the right of redemption available to the
           borrower in terms of Rule 8(6) of the Rules of 2002, as pointed
           out in MATHEW VARGHESE, stands extinguished upon
           publication of the sale notice under Rule 9(1).”

                                              (Emphasis supplied) 


    87.   The amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act was also looked

      into by the High Court of Telangana in the case of  K.V.V. Prasad

      Rao Gupta v. State Bank of India  reported in 2021 SCC OnLine TS

      328 and relying on the aforesaid decision of the Andhra Pradesh

      High Court in the case of  Sri. Sai Annadhatha Polymers  (supra), the

      court held that the right of the borrower to redeem the property

      stands extinguished upon publication of sale notice after the expiry


                                                                       Page 62 of 139 
      of thirty-days period of notice to the borrower. The relevant

      observations read as under: -  
 
            “21. Thus from the above judgments it is clear that under Rule
           8(6) of the Rules of 2002, the petitioners are entitled for a thirty
           day notice period enabling them to clear the loan and to redeem
           the property as envisaged under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI
           Act, and that if they fail to repay the amount within the
           stipulated period, after expiry of said period of 30 days, the
           secured creditor is entitled to issue publication of sale notice
           under Rule 9(1), and that on publication of such notice, the right
           of the borrower to redeem the property stands extinguished.”

                                              (Emphasis supplied)


   88.   However, in a conflicting judgement, one another Bench of the

      Telangana High Court in  Concern Readymix v. Corporation Bank 

      reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 783 relied upon  Section 60  of the

      TP Act to hold that the borrower’s right of redemption would

      continue to exist until the execution of the conveyance. It observed

      that the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act merely restricts

      the right of the secured creditor to proceed further with the transfer

      or sale of the secured asset, but not the right of redemption enjoyed

      by the borrower. The relevant observations read as under: - 
 
            “10. The first distinction between the unamended and amended
           sub-section (8) of  Section 13  is that before amendment, the
           facility of repayment of the entire dues along with the costs,
           charges and expenses, was available to the debtor at any time
           before the date fixed for the sale or transfer. But after the

                                                                       Page 63 of 139 
amendment, the facility is available upto the time before the date
of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations
or tender from public or private treaty. The second distinction is
that the unamended sub-section (8) did not provide for the
contingency when the dues are tendered by the borrower before
the date of completion of the sale or lease but after the issue of
notice. But the amended sub-section (8) takes care of the
contingency where steps have already been taken by the secured
creditor for the transfer of the secured asset, before the payment
was made. Except these two distinctions, there is no other
distinction.
 
                  xxx             xxx          xxx

   13. What is important to note both from the amended and
unamended provisions of  Section 13(8)  and Rule 9(1) is that both
of them do not speak in express terms, about the equity of
redemption available to the mortgagor. The amended  Section
13(8)  merely prohibits the secured creditor from proceeding
further with the transfer of the secured assets by way of lease,
assignment or sale. A restriction on the right of the mortgagee to
deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of
redemption available to the mortgagor. The payment of the
amounts mentioned in  Section 13(8)  ties the hands of the
mortgagee (secured creditor) from exercising any of the powers
conferred under the  Securitisation Act, 2002 . Redemption comes
later. But unfortunately, some Courts, on a wrong reading of the
decision of the Supreme Court in  Mathew Varghese v. M.
Amritha Kumar  [(2014) 5 SCC 610], have come to the conclusion
as though  Section 13(8)  speaks about the right of redemption. The
danger of interpreting  Section 13(8)  as though it relates to the
right of redemption, is that if payments are not made as per
 Section 13(8) , the right of redemption may get lost even before
the sale is complete in all respects. But in law it is not. It may be
seen from paragraphs-34 to 36 of the decision of the Supreme
Court in Mathew Varghese that the Supreme Court took note of
 Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act and the combined effect
of  Section 54  of the Transfer of Property Act and  Section 17  of
the Registration Act to come to the conclusion that the extinction
of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice. 
  Therefore, we should first understand that the right of

                                                             Page 64 of 139 
           redemption is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by
           a purchaser in an auction being accepted.
 
            14. Perhaps the Courts were tempted to think that  Section 13(8) 
           speaks about redemption, only on account of what is found in
           Rule 3(5) of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002.
           Rule 3(5) inserted by way of amendment with effect from 04-11
           2016 states that the demand notice issued under  Section 13(2) 
           should invite the attention of the borrower to the provisions of
            Section 13(8) , in respect of the time available to the borrower to
           redeem the secured assets. Today, it may be convenient for one
           borrower to contend that the right of redemption will be lost
           immediately upon the issue of notice under Rule 9(1). But if it is
           held so, the same would tantamount to annulling the relevant
           provisions of the  Transfer of Property Act , which do not stand
           expressly excluded, insofar as the question of redemption is
           concerned.”
                                              (Emphasis supplied)


   89.   The aforesaid decision of  Concern Readymix  (supra) was carried

      upto and challenged before this Court by way of Special Leave

      Petition (C) No. 20500 of 2019, which came to be dismissed by this

      Court in limine, being as follows: - 
 
                                       “ORDER
           Delay condoned.
             The Special Leave Petition is dismissed”


   90.   Additionally, this Court in  Shakeena &amp; Anr. v. Bank of India &amp; Ors . 

        reported in (2021) 12 SCC 761 while dealing with the unamended

      provision of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act stated that as a result

      of the amended provision, a more stringent condition has been

                                                                     Page 65 of 139 
stipulated whereby the borrower, in order to redeem the mortgage,

is now required to tender all dues to the secured creditor before the

date of publication of notice for auction. The relevant observations

read as under: -
 
      “15. Be it noted that on 1-9-2016 amendment to  Section 13(8)  of
     the 2002 Act came into force as a result of which the dues of the
     secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses
     incurred by him are required to be tendered to the secured
     creditor at any time before the date of publication of notice for
     public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or
     private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of
     the secured assets.
 
                       xxx            xxx          xxx

       30. A fortiorari, it must follow that the appellants have failed to
     exercise their right of redemption in the manner known to law,
     much less until the registration of the sale certificate on 18-9
     2007. In that view of the matter no relief can be granted to the
     appellants, assuming that the appellants are right in contending
     that as per the applicable provision at the relevant time
     [unamended  Section 13(8)  of the 2002 Act], they could have
     exercised their right of redemption until the registration of the
     sale certificate — which, indisputably, has already happened on
     18-9 2007. Therefore, it is not possible to countenance the plea of
     the appellants to reopen the entire auction process. This is more
     so because, the narrative of the appellants that they had made a
     valid tender towards the subject loan accounts before registration
     of the sale certificate, has been found to be tenuous. Thus
     understood, their right of redemption in any case stood
     obliterated on 18-9 2007. Further, the amended  Section 13(8)  of
     the 2002 Act which has come into force w.e.f. 1-9-2016, will now
     stare at the face of the appellants. As per the amended provision,
     stringent condition has been stipulated that the tender of dues to
     the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses
     incurred by him shall be at any time before the &quot;date of
     publication of notice&quot; for public auction or inviting quotations
                                                                Page 66 of 139 
           or tender from public or private deed for transfer by way of lease
           assessment or sale of the secured assets. [...]”

                                              (Emphasis supplied)


   91.   However, in  S. Karthik and Ors. v. N. Subhash Chand Jain and Ors . 

         reported in (2022) 10 SCC 641 a three-Judge Bench of this Court

      placing reliance on  Mathew Varghese  (supra) once again noted that

      under  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act , the

      mortgagor, i.e. the borrower, retains full right to redeem the

      property by tendering all the dues to the secured creditor at any time

      before the date fixed for sale or transfer. The relevant observations

      read as under: - 
 
             “53. It could thus be seen that this Court in  Mathew Varghese
           [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar , (2014) 5 SCC 610 : 
             (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254] observed that the equity of redemption
           is not extinguished by mere contract for sale and that the
           mortgagor&#x27;s right to redeem will survive until there has been
           completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. This
           Court further observed that applying the principles stated with
           reference to  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act in respect
           of a secured interest in a secured asset in favour of the secured
           creditor under the provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  and the
           relevant Rules applicable, a free hand is given to a secured
           creditor to resort to a sale without the intervention of the court
           or tribunal. It has, however, been held that under  Section 13(8) ,
           it is clearly stipulated that the mortgagor i.e. the borrower, who
           is otherwise called as a debtor, retains his full right to redeem the
           property by tendering all the dues to the secured creditor at any
           time before the date fixed for sale or transfer.
 

                                                                        Page 67 of 139 
  54. This Court in  Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M.
Amritha Kumar , (2014) 5 SCC 610 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254]
further held that if the tender is made by the borrower at the last
moment before the sale or transfer, the secured asset should not
be sold or transferred by the secured creditor.   This Court held
that there was no reason as to why the general principle  laid
down by  this Court in  Narandas Karsondas [Narandas
Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam , (1977) 3 SCC 247] with reference to
 Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act could not have
application in respect of a secured interest in a secured asset
created in favour of a secured creditor. It has been held that the
said principles will apply on all fours in respect of a transaction
as between the debtor and secured creditor under the provisions
of the  SARFAESI Act . 
 
                  xxx            xxx          xxx

   115. Even if viewed from another angle, the claim of the
appellants is not sustainable. The two-Judge Bench of this Court
in  Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar ,
(2014) 5 SCC 610 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254], has heavily relied
on the judgment of the three-Judge Bench of this Court in
Narandas Karsondas .   It has been held by this Court in  Narandas
Karsondas [Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam , (1977) 3 SCC
247], that the right of redemption, which is embodied in  Section
60  of the Transfer of Property Act, is available to the mortgagor
unless it has been extinguished by the act of parties. It has been
held, that only on execution of the conveyance and registration of
transfer of the mortgagor&#x27;s interest by registered instrument,
that the mortgagor&#x27;s right of redemption will be extinguished. 

                   xxx            xxx          xxx

    118. It is further relevant to note that this Court in  Dwarika
Prasad [Dwarika Prasad v. State of U.P. , (2018) 5 SCC 491] and
in  Shakeena [Shakeena v. Bank of India , (2021) 12 SCC 761] held
that the right to redemption stands extinguished on the sale
certificate getting registered.”

                                  (Emphasis supplied)  


                                                           Page 68 of 139 
    92.   A similar view as  Concern Readymix  (supra) was taken by the

      Punjab &amp; Haryana High Court in  Pal Alloys and Metal India

      Private Limited &amp; Ors. v. Allahabad Bank &amp; Ors.  reported in 2021

      SCC OnLine P&amp;H 2733. The court therein looked into the Report of

      the Joint Committee on the 2016 Amendment to arrive at the

      conclusion that under the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI

      Act, the right of redemption of mortgage would continue till the

      execution of conveyance or issuance of sale certificate.    It further

      observed that the decision in  Shakeena  (supra) was not applicable

      inasmuch as it did not examine the provision of  Section 13(8)  of the

      SARFAESI Act through the lens of Section 60 under the  TP Act . The

      relevant observations read as under: - 
 
             “78. It is interesting to note that para 24 of the Report of the Joint
           Committee  referred to above  deals with the proposed amendment
           to  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and gives a heading
           “Provisions to stop secure creditor to lease or assignment or sale
           in the prescribed conditions-Amendment to  Section 13(8)  of the
           SARFAESI Act. 
 
            79. Thus the amendment was proposed w.r.t. when to stop the
           secured creditor from selling/transferring the secured asset. The
           words ‘when to stop the exercise of right of redemption by the
           borrower/mortgagor’ were not used.
 
            80. In the said Report, at pg.12, Clause 11(ii) of the Bill which
           proposed to amend  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act is noted.
             After extracting the existing  Section 13(8)  of the Act which
           stands as under: —

                                                                         Page 69 of 139 
     “If the dues of the secured creditor together with all
     costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are
     tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the
     date fixed for sale or transfer, the secured asset shall
     not be sold or transferred by the secured creditor, and
     no further step shall be taken by him for transfer or sale
     of that secured asset.”

  81. The proposed modification to  Section 13(8)  is set out also at
pg.12 as under:—

     “(8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor
     together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred
     by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time
     before the date fixed for lease, assignment or sale of the
     secured assets,-
 
      (i) the secured assets shall not be leased, assigned or
     sold by the secured creditor; and

       (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
     creditor for lease or assignment or sale of the assets
     before tendering of such amount under this sub-
       section, no further step shall be taken by such secured
     creditor for lease or assignment or sale of such secured
     assets.”

  82. Strangely, on the next page at page 13, the following is
stated:-
 
      “The Committee after examining the proposed
     amendment and the existing Rules in this regard
     decide to modify proposed Clause 11(ii) [ section 13(8) 
     of the principal Act] as under: “

          (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured
          creditor together with all costs, charges and
          expenses incurred by him is tendered to the
          secured creditor at any time before the date
          of publication of notice for public auction or

                                                            Page 70 of 139 
          inviting quotations or tender from public or
          private treaty for transfer by way of lease,
          assignment or sale of the secured assets,-
 
           (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred
          by way of lease, assignment or sale by the
          secured creditor; and

            (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the
          secured creditor for transfer by way of lease
          or assignment or sale of the assets before
          tendering of such amount under this sub-
            section, no further step shall be taken by such
          secured creditor for transfer by way of lease
          or assignment or sale of such secured
          assets.”

  83. Nothing is mentioned as to why the proposal indicated in
Page 12 was changed on page-13 differently.
 
 84. Admittedly, what is stated in page-13 was passed in the Lok
Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and then it became the Act 44 of 2016
and came into effect on 01.09.2016.
 
 85. But the important thing to note is that this Report does not
indicate that the Committee had even considered  Section 60  of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882, which provides the general law
of right to redeem a mortgaged asset of a mortgager vis-a-vis the
provisions of the  SARFAESI Act .
 
 86. It no where says that there was an intention to bring about a
change with regard to the time before which a mortgagor can
exercise his right to redeem the mortgage.
 
 87. Even the heading of Para 24 of the Report which says
“Provisions to stop secure creditor to lease or assignment or sale
in the prescribed conditions - Amendment to  Section 13(8)  of the
SARFAESI Act” seems to suggest that the focus of the
Committee was on the date when the secured creditor&#x27;s right to
lease or assignment or sale would stop.
 
 
                                                             Page 71 of 139 
  88. In our considered opinion, it is clear that the legislature did
not have any intention to deal with the right of mortgagor to
redeem the mortgage when they amended  Sec.13(8)  or to modify
it in any manner; and amendment cannot be said to have
intended to modify the existing law which continued even when
the un amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act was in force.
The amended  Sec.13(8)  was intended to only deal with the date
when the secured creditor&#x27;s right to transfer the secured asset
should stop and nothing more.
 
                  xxx             xxx           xxx

  93. The view taken by the High Court for the State of Telangana
and Andhra Pradesh in M/s. Concern Ready Mix [(2019) 3 ALD
384 : Law Finder Doc Id # 1380151] commends itself to us and
we accept and approve the same.
 
 94. We shall now consider the judgment of Supreme Court in
Shakeena [(2019) 5 RCR (Civil) 689 (SC)]cited by the counsel
for 1st respondent. In that case, sale certificate had been issued in
favour of the auction purchasers on 06.01.2006 and a Writ
Petition was filed on 19.01.2006 challenging the auction and it
was registered on 18.9.2007. The Court held that the appellants
had failed to make a valid tender of amounts due or exercise their
right of redemption in a manner known to law until the
registration of the sale certificate on 18.09.2007 and that the right
of redemption stood obliterated on 18.09.2007. The statement
therein in para 29 that as per the amended provision stringent
conditions have been stipulated that the tender of dues to the
secured creditor shall be at any time before the date of publication
of notice for public auction does not, in our opinion, lead to an
expression of opinion by the Supreme Court that the law of
redemption as per  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act
would not apply in view of amendment to  Section 13(8) . We do
not find any discussion in the decision in Shakeena [(2019) 5
RCR (Civil) 689 (SC)] about the decisions of the apex court
dealing with the right of redemption under  Sec.60  of the Transfer
of Property Act, 1872. So reliance on  the said decision  does not
help the 1st respondent.
 
                  xxx             xxx           xxx

                                                             Page 72 of 139 
            96. Keeping in mind (i) the Report of the Joint Committee on the
          Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws
          and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill, 2016 discussed
          above, (ii) the law  laid down by  the Supreme Court in Mathew
          Varghese [(2014) 5 SCC 610] and (iii) the decision in M/s.
          Concern Readymix [(2019) 3 ALD 384 : Law Finder Doc Id #
          1380151] of the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh High Court,
          with which we respectfully agree, we hold that the amended
           Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits a secured
          creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured
          asset by way of lease, assignment or sale; a restriction on the right
          of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same
          as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor; the
          payment of the amount mentioned in  Section 13(8)  of the
          SARFAESI Act ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor)
          from exercising any of the powers conferred under the Act; that
          redemption comes later; extinction of the right of redemption
          comes much later than the sale notice; and the right of redemption
          is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by a purchaser
          in an auction being accepted. We also hold that such a right
          would continue till the execution of a conveyance i.e. issuance of
          sale certificate in favour of the mortgagee. [...]

            97. It would, therefore, certainly be available to the petitioners
          herein before the issuance of sale certificate in favour of
          respondents No. 2 and 3. Point (a) is answered accordingly in
          favor of the petitioners and against the respondents.”


   93.   The decision of  Concern Readymix  (supra) was referred to and relied

      upon later by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Amme Srisailam

      v. Union Bank of India, Regional Office, Guntur, rep. by its Region

      Head &amp; Deputy General Manager, Andhra Pradesh &amp; Ors. reported

      in 2022 SCC OnLine AP 3484. In the said decision it was held that a



                                                                       Page 73 of 139 
conjoint reading of Section(s) 35 and 37 of the SARFAESI does not

appear to exclude the applicability of  Section 60  of the TP Act.    It

further noted, that although this Court in  Shakeena  (supra) had

taken a contrary view, more particularly that the borrower’s right of

redemption stands curtailed by the 2016 Amendment, yet in the

subsequent larger bench decision of this Court in  S. Karthik  (supra)

it was held that such right of redemption would extinguish only on

the sale certificate getting registered and not upon publication of the

notice of auction. Consequently, it held that the right of redemption

available to the borrower under Section 60 of the TP would not stand

restricted only by virtue of the amended  Section 13(8)  of the

SARFAESI Act. The relevant observations read as under: -  

       “38. After referring to the amendments brought to the Security
     Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002, this Court took the view that
     amended  Section 13(8)  merely prohibits the secured creditor from
     proceeding further with the transfer of the secured assets by way
     of lease, assignment or sale if the dues are paid before issuance of
     notice for public auction. Thereafter it has been held that a
     restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property
     is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to
     the mortgagor. Payment of the amounts mentioned in  Section
     13(8)  ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor) from
     exercising any of the powers conferred under the  SARFAESI
     Act . Redemption comes later. It has been held as follows:
 

           The danger of interpreting  Section 13(8)  as though it
          relates to the right of redemption, is that if payments

                                                                 Page 74 of 139 
     are not made as per  Section 13(8) , the right of
     redemption may get lost even before the sale is complete
     in all respects. But in law it is not.
 

 39. Thus this Court emphasised that the right of redemption is
not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by the purchaser
in an auction is accepted.
 

  40. A three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in  S.Karthik 
(supra) held that the right of redemption which is embodied in
 Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 is available to
the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by the act of the
parties. Only on execution of the conveyance and registration of
transfer of mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument that the
mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished. Referring
to the previous decisions of the Supreme Court, it has been held
that the right to redemption stands extinguished only on the sale
certificate getting registered. 
 

  41. This position has been explained by the Punjab &amp; Haryana
High Court in  Pal Alloys &amp; Metal India Private Limited  (supra),
wherein it has been clarified that the amended  Section 13(8)  of
the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits the secured creditor from
proceeding further with the transfer of the secured asset by way
of lease, assignment or sale if the dues are paid before issuance of
sale notice for public auction. A restriction on the right of the
mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the
equity of redemption available to the mortgagor. 
 

  42. Let us now examine the decision of the Supreme Court in
 Shakeena  (supra) relied upon by the petitioner.    As opposed to
 S.Karthik  (supra) which was rendered by a three-Judge  Bench,
Shakeena  (supra) was delivered by a two-Judge Bench of the
Supreme Court. That was a case which dealt with  Section 13(8) 
of the SARFAESI Act prior to amendment. In this case, the
appellants failed to exercise their right of redemption until
registration of the sale certificate; therefore, relief was declined.  
 
                                                             Page 75 of 139 
 While coming to the above conclusion, the Division Bench of the
Supreme Court adverted to the amended  Section 13(8)  of the
SARFAESI Act observing by way of obiter that tender of dues to
the secured creditor with all costs, charges and expenses incurred
by him shall be at any time before the date of publication of notice
for public auction etc.


   43. The decision in  Shakeena  (supra) was rendered by a two-
Judge Bench of the Supreme Court on 20.08.2019.   On the other
hand, the decision in  S.Karthik  (supra) was rendered by a three-
Judge Bench of the Supreme Court much later i.e., on 23.09.2021. 
 The decision in  S.Karthik  (supra) being a later judgment and by
a larger bench therefore will be binding on us and this decision
says that the right of redemption stands extinguished only on the
sale certificate getting registered. 
 
 
  44. Before we revert back to the facts of the present case, we may
also refer to  Sections 35  and  37  of the SARFAESI Act. While
 Section 35  says that the provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  shall
have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
contained in any other law for the time being in force,  Section 37 
clarifies that provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  or the rules made
thereunder shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any
other law for the time being in force.
 
 
  45. This brings us to  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act,
1882. Section 60 says that at any time after the principal amount
has become due, the mortgagor has a right, on payment or tender,
of the mortgage money, to require the mortgagee (a) to deliver to
the mortgagor the mortgage deed and all documents relating to
the mortgaged property which are in possession or power of the
mortgagee, (b) where the mortgagee is in possession of the
mortgaged property, to deliver possession thereof back to the
mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re
transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as
he may direct, or to execute and to have registered an
acknowledgement in writing that any right in derogation of his
interest transferred to the mortgagee has been extinguished. As

                                                            Page 76 of 139 
           per the proviso, the right conferred under the aforesaid provision
           shall not be extinguished by any act of the parties or by decree of
           a Court.
 
 
              46. Therefore, on a careful application of  Sections 35  and  37  of
           the SARFAESI Act, it is evident that the situation contemplated
           under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act does not exclude
           application of  Section 60  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882.
           As explained by this Court in  Concern Readymix  (supra), a
           restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property
           post issuance of notice for public auction is not the same as the
           right of redemption available to the mortgagor.”

                                              (Emphasis supplied)


c.    Effect of the 2016 Amendment on the Right of Redemption under
       Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. 
 
 
   94.   This Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra) considered the conflicting

      orders passed by various High Courts in interpreting the provisions

      of  Section 13(8)  in relation to the right of redemption by the

      borrower. 
 
 

  95.   In the final analysis, this Court noted that under the pre-amended

       Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, the borrower could repay the

      dues, along with the interest and charges at any time “before the date

      fixed for sale or transfer”. However, post Amendment, redemption is

      available before the date of publication of notice for public auction.

                                                                       Page 77 of 139 
  96.   However, under the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act

      allows the right of redemption only till the date of publication of

      notice, which is a departure from the general right of redemption

      under the general law and therefore is inconsistent with  Section 60 

      of Transfer of Property Act. In such a situation of inconsistency, the

       SARFAESI Act  being a special one, would override the general law.

      This Court also took note of  Section 35  and  Section 37  respectively

      of the SARFEASI Act and held that Section 35 of the SARFEASI Act

      will have an overriding effect, notwithstanding anything which is

      inconsistent with any other law. Further, this Court held that the

      laws that are mentioned in Section 37 of SARFEASI Act i.e., laws

      which deal with securities or occupy the same field as the  SARFAESI

      Act , would be applicable in addition to it and not in derogation to

      any other law.
 
 

  97.   The objects and reasons for the Amendment of the SARFEASI Act

      was to facilitate expeditious disposal of recovery applications.

      Taking the same into consideration, the Court noted that an

      interpretation which furthers the said object and reasons should be


                                                                Page 78 of 139 
      preferred and adopted. If the general law is allowed to govern, it

      will defeat the very object and purpose of the amended  Section 13(8) .



      98.   The Court concluded that the judgement delivered in  Sri. Sai

      Annadhatha Polymers  (supra), as well as in  K.V.V. Prasad Rao

      Gupta  (supra) stipulate the correct position of law and overruled the

      judgements of the High Courts in Amme Srisailam (supra),  Concern

      Readymix  (supra), and  Pal Alloys  (supra).    
 
 

  99.   This Court in the last considered the sanctity of public auctions and

      noted that reading  Section 13(8)  in any other manner would lead to

      a worrisome situation as the successful bidder would continue to

      remain apprehensive till a valid sale certificate is issued.



   100. The final conclusion drawn by this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra)

      reads thus: - 
 
            “110. We summarise our final conclusion as under: -
 
            110.1. The High Court was not justified in exercising its writ
           jurisdiction under  Article 226  of the Constitution more
           particularly when the borrowers had already availed the
           alternative remedy available to them under  Section 17  of
           the Sarfaesi Act.
 

                                                                  Page 79 of 139 
 110.2. The confirmation of sale by the Bank under Rule 9(2) of
the 2002 Rules invests the successful auction-purchaser with a
vested right to obtain a certificate of sale of the immovable
property in the form given in Appendix V to the Rules i.e. in
accordance with Rule 9(6) of the Security Interest (Enforcement)
Rules, 2002.
 
 110.3. In accordance with the unamended  Section 13(8)  of
the Sarfaesi Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the secured
asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured asset.
  In other words, the borrower&#x27;s right of redemption did not stand
terminated on the date of the auction-sale of the secured asset
itself and remained alive till the transfer was completed in favour
of the auction-purchaser, by registration of the sale certificate and
delivery of possession of the secured asset. However, the amended
provisions of  Section 13(8)  of the Sarfaesi Act, make it clear that
the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset stands
extinguished thereunder on the very date of publication of the
notice for public auction under Rule 9(1) of the 2002 Rules. In
effect, the right of redemption available to the borrower under the
present statutory regime is drastically curtailed and would be
available only till the date of publication of the notice under Rule
9(1) of the 2002 Rules and not till the completion of the sale or
transfer of the secured asset in favour of the auction-purchaser.

110.4. The Bank after having confirmed the sale under Rule 9(2)
of the 2002 Rules could not have withheld the sale certificate
under Rule 9(6) of the 2002 Rules, and entered into a private
arrangement with a borrower.
 
 110.5. The High Court under  Article 226  of the Constitution
could not have applied equitable considerations to overreach the
outcome contemplated by the statutory auction process
prescribed under the  Sarfaesi Act .
 
   110.6. The two decisions of the Telangana High Court
in  Concern Readymix [Concern Readymix v. Corporation Bank ,
2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 783 : ( 2019) 3 ALD 384] and Amme
Srisailam [Amme Srisailam v. Union Bank of India , 2022 SCC
OnLine AP 3484] do not lay down the correct position of law.    In
the same way, the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High

                                                             Page 80 of 139 
          Court in  Pal Alloys [Pal Alloys &amp; Metal India (P)
          Ltd. v. Allahabad Bank , 2021 SCC OnLine P&amp;H 2733] also does
          not lay down the correction position of law. 
 
             110.7. The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in  Sri Sai
          Annadhatha Polymers [Sri Sai Annadhatha Polymers v. Canara
          Bank , 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 178] and the decision of the
          Telangana High Court in  K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta [K.V.V.
          Prasad Rao Gupta v. SBI , 2021 SCC OnLine TS 328] lay down
          the correct position of law while interpreting the amended
           Section 13(8)  of the Sarfaesi Act.”
                                            (Emphasis supplied)


C.   How the decision of this Court in Bafna Motors should be
     understood?  
 
 

   101. Before we proceed to delineate the true purport and effect of the

     amended  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act , it would

     be apposite to first advert to a few decisions which referred to and

     applied the decision of this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra), so as to

     ascertain how  the said judgment  has been understood for the

     purpose of construing  Section 13(8) . 
 
  102. What can be discerned from the conspectus of cases discussed above

     is that, predominantly, all the courts and tribunals, on a reading of

     the decision of this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra), have construed

     the amended  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act  to mean

     that the right of redemption of the borrower stands extinguished on

                                                                 Page 81 of 139 
     the date on which the notice of auction is published by the secured

     creditor. In other words, the effect of  Section 13(8)  has been

     understood to mean that the borrower would retain the right to

     redeem the mortgage only up to the date of publication of

     such auction notice, once such notice is published, the right of

     redemption would cease. 
 
 

i.   There cannot be any artificial distinction in the right of
     redemption under  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act for
     different modes of transfer.
 
 

a.   Scheme for sale of Immovable Secured Asset under  Section 13(8) 
     of the SARFAESI Act read with Rule(s) 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI
     Rules.
 
 
  103. Again, at the cost of repetition, the amended  Section 13  sub-section

     (8) of the  SARFAESI Act  is reproduced hereunder: -

            “13. Enforcement of security interest.–
          (8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together
          with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered
          to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication
          of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from
          public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment
          or sale of the secured assets,—


                 (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of
               lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and
                                                                     Page 82 of 139 
                  (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
                creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or
                sale of the assets before tendering of such amount
                under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken
                by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or
                assignment or sale of such secured assets.”


  104. A plain reading of the aforesaid provision indicates that where the

     borrower tenders the amount of dues along with all costs, charges

     and expenses to the secured creditor “before the date of publication of

     notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or

     private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured

     assets”, then as per clause (i) the secured asset shall not be transferred

     by the secured creditor, and as per clause (ii) where any steps

     towards such transfer, by lease, assignment or sale, as the case may

     be, was already taken by the secured creditor, then no further steps

     shall be taken in this regard.
 
 

  105. To put it simply, as per sub-section (8) of  Section 13  of the SARFAESI

     Act, a borrower can tender the amount of due to the secured creditor

     along with all costs, charges and expenses, at any time, before the

     date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations

     or tender from public or private treaty, as the case may be.

                                                                      Page 83 of 139 
  106. A borrower has no unfettered right to tender such amount of dues,

     as stipulated in  Section 13(8) , after the date of publication of notice

     for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or

     private treaty, as the case may be, because the restriction on the

     secured creditor, from transferring the secured asset, envisaged

     under clause(s) (i) and (ii) of the said provision, would only be

     attracted, if the dues are tendered prior to the publication of notice

     for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or

     private treaty, as the case may be. Where the borrower tenders such

     dues after the publication of the notice stipulated in  Section 13(8) ,

     the secured creditor is not bound to accept it, and can continue to

     proceed with the transfer of the secured asset, by way of lease,

     assignment or sale.
 
 
  107.  Section 13  sub-section (8) of the  SARFAESI Act  must be read along

     with Rule(s) 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules.
 
 
  108. The four modes of transfer of secured asset, as envisaged under

      Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, namely, ‘public auction’,

     ‘inviting quotations’, ‘tender from public’ and ‘private treaty’ have



                                                                Page 84 of 139 
     been set out and detailed in Rule 8(5) of the SARFAESI Rules. The

     said rule reads as under: -
 
           “8. Sale of immovable secured assets.-
 
                            xxx             xxx          xxx

          (5) Before effecting sale of the immovable property referred to in
          sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the authorised officer shall obtain valuation
          of the property from an approved valuer and in consultation with
          the secured creditor, fix the reserve price of the property and may
          sell the whole or any part of such immovable secured asset by any
          of the following methods:-
 
                (a) by obtaining quotations from the persons dealing
               with similar secured assets or otherwise interested in
               buying the such assets; or
                 (b) by inviting tenders from the public;
                 (c) by holding public auction including through e-
               auction mode; or
                 (d) by private treaty.
 
                  Provided that in case of sale of immovable property in the
          State of Jammu and Kashmir, the provision of  Jammu and
          Kashmir Transfer of Property Act, 1977  shall apply to the person
          who acquires such property in the State.”




  109. Rule 8 sub-rule (5) of the SARFAESI Rules inter-alia provides the

     different modes and manner in which an immovable secured asset

     may be transferred by the secured creditor. The said rule provides




                                                                       Page 85 of 139 
     that the secured creditor may transfer the whole or any part of such

     secured asset by any of the following methods: -
 
           (a) by obtaining quotations from the persons dealing
              with similar secured assets or otherwise interested
              in buying the such assets; or
            (b) by inviting tenders from the public
            (c) by holding public auction including through e-
              auction mode; or
            (d) by private treaty


  110. As per Rule 8 sub-rule (6) of the SARFAESI Rules, before the transfer

     / sale of the immovable secured asset by the secured creditor, by

     any of the methods enumerated in Rule 8(5), the secured creditor is

     required to serve to the borrower a notice of thirty-days of the

     intended sale of such secured asset through any one of the methods

     specified in Rule 8(5). The Proviso appended to Rule 8(6) further

     stipulates that where the proposed sale of the secured asset is either

     by ‘inviting tenders from the public’ or by ‘holding a public auction’,

     then the secured creditor shall cause a public notice in two leading

     newspapers, in the manner and form specified therein. Rule 8 sub-

     rule (6) reads as under: -
 
 


                                                                Page 86 of 139 
            “8. Sale of immovable secured assets.-
 
                            xxx             xxx          xxx
          (6) the authorised officer shall serve to the borrower a notice of
          thirty days for sale of the immovable secured assets, under sub-
            rule (5)

          Provided that if the sale of such secured asset is being effected by
          either inviting tenders from the public or by holding public
          auction, the secured creditor shall cause a public notice in the
          Form given in Appendix IV-A to be published in two leading
          newspapers including one in vernacular language having wide
          circulation in the locality.”


  111. Rule 8(7) of the SARFAESI Rules mandates that every notice of sale

     shall be affixed on the conspicuous part of the immovable property,

     proposed to be sold in terms of Rule 8(5) and in addition, be

     uploaded on the website of the secured creditor, containing or

     setting out the detailed terms and conditions of the sale, as specified

     thereunder. Rule 8(7) of the SARFAESI Rules reads as under: -

            “8. Sale of immovable secured assets.-
 
                            xxx            xxx           xxx

          (7) every notice of sale shall be affixed on the conspicuous part of
          the immovable property and the authorised officer shall upload
          the detailed terms and conditions of the sale, on the website of the
          secured creditor, which shall include;
 
                (a) the description of the immovable property to be sold,
               including the details of the encumbrances known to the
               secured creditor;
 


                                                                      Page 87 of 139 
                (b) the secured debt for recovery of which the property
               is to be sold;
                 (c) reserve price of the immovable secured assets below
               which the property may not be sold;
                 (d) time and place of public auction or the time after
               which sale by any other mode shall be completed;
                 (e) deposit of earnest money as may be stipulated by the
               secured creditor;
                 (f) any other terms and conditions, which the
               authorized officer considers it necessary for a
               purchaser to know the nature and value of the
               property.”


  112. The last provision relevant for our discussion is Rule 9(1) of the

     SARFAESI Rules. Rule 9(1) provides that no sale of immovable

     secured asset under these rules, more particularly Rule 8(5) shall

     take place before the expiry of thirty-days from the date on which

     the public notice of sale is published as referred to in the Proviso to

     Rule 8(6) or notice of sale is served to the borrower. The Proviso to

     Rule 9(1) further stipulates that if the sale of the immovable secured

     asset under Rule 8(5) fails, then for conducting any subsequent sale,

     the secured creditor would be required to serve, affix and publish

     the subsequent notice of sale for a period of fifteen-days only. In

     other words, for the sale of immovable secured asset in the first

     instance, a notice period of thirty-days is required to be observed by

     the secured creditor till the date of actual sale / transfer, and if the


                                                                    Page 88 of 139 
    first sale fails, then for all subsequent sales, only a notice period

    fifteen-days is to be given, as opposed to thirty-days. The said rule

    reads as under: -
 
          “9. Time of sale, Issue of Sale Certificate and delivery of
         possession, etc.-
 
                            xxx            xxx           xxx

         (1) No sale of immovable property under these rules, in first
         instance shall take place before the expiry of thirty days from the
         date on which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers
         as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6) of Rule 8 or notice of
         sale has been served to the borrower:
 
                   Provided further that if sale of immovable property by
         any one of the methods specified by sub-rule (5) of Rule 8 fails
         and sale is required to be conducted again, the authorised officer
         shall serve, affix and publish notice of sale of not less than fifteen
         days to the borrower, for any subsequent sale.”


  113. A perusal of the bare text of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act

    suggests that the borrower can tender the entire dues of the creditor

    including all costs, charges and expenses “before the date of publication

    of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or

    private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured

    assets”. In other words, the textual reading of the provision appears

    to convey that the right of redemption of the borrower would be

    extinguished on the date on which the notice is published for


                                                                       Page 89 of 139 
     auction, invitation of quotations, tender from public or private

     treaty.
 
 

     114. This has also been the understanding that has been adopted by

     Cholamandalam Investment (supra),  M. Raghu  (supra), VST

     Constructions (supra),  P.V. Sitarama Swamy  (supra) and a catena

     of other decisions passed by the various courts and tribunals from a

     reading of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act and the judgment of

      Bafna Motors  (supra).   
 
 
  115. We first have to try and understand which notice is the expression

     “before the date of publication of notice” in sub-section (8) of  Section 13 

     speaking of and what is meant by the word “publication” used

     thereunder.
 
 

  116. Rule 8(6) of the SARFAESI Rules provides that before the sale of the

     immovable secured asset, by way of obtaining quotations, inviting

     tenders, holding auction or by private treaty, a notice of sale has to

     be served to the borrower. Proviso to Rule 8(6) provides that where

     the proposed sale is by way of either public auction or inviting



                                                                    Page 90 of 139 
     tenders from public, the secured creditor shall cause a public notice

     in two leading newspapers.
 
 
  117. Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules appears to hold significance in

     understanding the word “publication” employed in  Section 13(8) ,

     and which notice, the said word appears to be referring to. Rule 9(1)

     inter-alia states that no sale of immovable secured asset shall take

     place before the expiry of thirty-days from the “date on which the

     public notice of sale is published in newspapers as referred to in the proviso

     to sub-rule (6) of rule 8”.
 
 
  118. From a conjoint reading of the Proviso to Rule 8(6) and Rule 9(1) of

     the SARFAESI Rules, the words “before the date of publication of notice”

     used in  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act, semantically appear to

     mean the publication of the notice of sale in the newspaper, as

     specified in Rule 8(6). This is particularly because Rule 9(1) while

     referring to the notice of sale of public auction / tender under the

     Proviso to Rule 8(6), specifically uses the word “published”, thereby

     suggesting that term “publication” occurring in  Section 13(8)  is

     referring to nothing but the notice envisaged under the Proviso to

     Rule 8(6) or to put it simply, the notice of sale in the newspaper.


                                                                      Page 91 of 139 
  119. Thus, although it is entirely possible for an inference to be drawn

     from the word “published” in Rule 9(1) for construing the expression

     “before the date of publication of notice” used in  Section 13(8) , yet to our

     minds, this does not appear to be correct understanding of  Section

     13(8) , for the reasons that we shall assign hereinafter.


  120. We must not lose sight of the fact that  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI

     Act speaks of all four modes of sale / transfer, delineated under the

     SARFAESI Rules, more particularly, Rule 8(5). The provision also

     refers to each of the mode of sale uniformly and in the same manner.

      Section 13(8)  stipulates that the borrower must tender the dues

     “before the date of publication of notice” for “public auction or inviting

     quotations or tender from public or private treaty” (emphasis).

  121. The language couched in the provision of  Section 13(8)  of the

     SARFAESI Act, also makes no distinction between what mode or

     manner of sale is adopted by the secured creditor, insofar as the

     application of the rigours of the provision is concerned. We say so

     because, the expression “before the date of publication of notice of sale”

     has not been confined or restricted to only some modes of sale and

     not to others.
 
 
                                                                    Page 92 of 139 
  122. The entire expression reads “before the date of publication of notice for

     public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private

     treaty”. But if the expression “before the date of publication of notice of

     sale” is construed to be synonymous to the publication of notice of

     sale in the newspaper in terms of the Proviso to Rule 8(6) alone, then

     the same would result in an anomaly.
 
 
  123.  Section 13(8) , more particularly the expression “before the date of

     publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender

     from public or private treaty” would then effectively read to mean that

     a borrower can exercise its right of redemption of mortgage till the

     date of publication of notice of sale in the newspaper for “auction”

     where such notice is required, “or inviting quotations” where no such

     notice is required, “or tender from public” where such publication of

     notice is required, “or private treaty”, where again, no such notice is

     required to be published. The aforesaid may be better illustrated

     through the following diagram depicted hereunder: -

             “Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor
           together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by
           him is tendered to the secured creditor at any time before
           the date of publication of notice for public auction or
           inviting quotations or tender from public or private


                                                                    Page 93 of 139 
          treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of
          the secured assets,—


                  (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by
                way of lease, assignment or sale by the secured
                creditor; and

                  (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured
                creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment
                or sale of the assets before tendering of such
                amount under this sub-section, no further step
                shall be taken by such secured creditor for
                transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of
                such secured assets.”


          In the above illustration: -
 
           ___     signifies that no notice of sale is required to be published
                  in newspaper.
 
           ___     signifies that notice of sale is required to be published in
                  newspaper.
 

  124. This inherent contradiction within the provision of  Section 13(8)  of

     the SARFAESI Act was taken notice of by the High Court of

     Telangana in M/s  Venshiv Pharma Chem (P) Ltd. &amp; Anr. v. State

     Bank of India &amp; Ors.  reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 39. In  the

     said decision  the High Court observed that the amended  Section

     13(8)  attaches vital importance to the date of publication of the notice

     insofar as the right of redemption is concerned. As such, it held that
                                                                  Page 94 of 139 
where the sale of the secured asset is by public auction or inviting

tender from public, the date of publication of such sale notice under

Rule 9(1) would clinch the right of the borrower to redeem the

mortgage. It further observed that where the sale is by inviting

quotations or private treaty, there the situation would be covered by

clauses (i) and (ii) of the amended  Section 13(8)  instead. The relevant

observations read as under: - 
 
      “52. Sri M. Narender Reddy, learned senior counsel, would
     argue that the unamended  section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act
     was similar in its wording to the amended version thereof, as
     regards the right of redemption being linked to the date fixed for
     sale or transfer of the secured asset. However, it may be noted
     that the amended version contains a new insertion to the effect
     that the tendering of the dues by the borrower to the secured
     creditor has to be at any time before the date of publication of
     notice for public auction or inviting quotations, or tender from
     public or private treaty for transfer. The language of the
     unamended version did not contain such a bar and allowed the
     right of redemption to operate till the date fixed for &quot;sale or
     transfer&quot; of the secured asset.
 
      53. Though Sri M. Narender Reddy, learned senior counsel,
     would point out that clause (i) in the amended  section 13(8) 
     would indicate that if the dues are tendered by the borrower to
     the secured creditor, the secured assets should not be transferred
     by way of lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor and
     under clause (ii), in case any step has already been taken by the
     secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale
     of the assets, before tendering of such amount under this sub-
       section, no further step should be taken by the secured creditor
     and therefore, the right of redemption has to be construed
     accordingly. However, it may be noticed that the amended  section
     13(8)  attaches vital importance to the date of publication of the

                                                                Page 95 of 139 
notice. In so far as the date of publication of the notice under rule
9(1) is concerned, be it for a public auction or for inviting tenders
from the public, the secured creditor is bound to wait for 30 days
from the date on which such publication is carried out before
proceeding to the actual sale. Prior to this date, no steps could
possibly be taken by the secured creditor for transfer of the
secured asset. Therefore, it is only in the other two situations,
that is, where the secured creditor resorts to sale of the secured
asset by inviting quotations under rule 8(5)(a) or by private
treaty under rule 8(5)(d) of the Rules of 2002, that the possibility
of a step being taken by the secured creditor for transfer would
arise. The situation covered by clauses (i) and (ii) of amended
 section 13(8)  therefore would not arise where the sale is through
public auction by publication of a sale notice under rule 9(1).

  54. Further, under the new  section 13(8) , the right of redemption
available to the borrower stands drastically curtailed. Now, such
right is available to the borrower only up to the date of
publication of the notice for public auction or inviting quotations
or tender from public for transfer by way of lease, assignment or
sale of the secured asset. Thus, when the secured creditor resorts
to sale through public auction under rule 8(5) of the Rules of
2002, the date of publication of such sale notice under rule 9(1)
of the Rules of 2002 would effectively clinch the right of the
borrower to redeem the secured asset. However, rule 8(6) of the
Rules of 2002 remained unchanged, despite the amendments in
November, 2016. This rule continues to provide that the
authorized officer should serve upon the borrower a notice of 30
days before sale of the immovable secured asset. Obviously, this
notice is intimation to the borrower of the intention of the secured
creditor to recover its dues by sale of such asset, thereby enabling
him to exercise his right of redemption under  section 13(8)  of the
SARFAESI Act. Therefore, a clear 30 days would have to be
maintained between the date of service of such notice under rule
8(6) of the Rules of 2002 and the expiry of the right of redemption
under the amended  section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act.”
                                    (Emphasis supplied)




                                                             Page 96 of 139 
   125. What has been conveyed in so many words in  Venshiv Pharma

    Chem  (supra) is that there are two distinct point of time, when the

    right of redemption of the borrower would stand extinguished

    under the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act. In arriving

    at the aforesaid conclusion, the High Court appears to have partly

    agreed with the argument advanced before it, that the amended

     Section 13(8)  is similar in its operation to its unamended

    counterpart, and the only significant change made is in respect of

    the clear restriction on the secured creditor to transfer or sell the

    secured asset once the dues are tendered by the borrower, and thus,

    there would be no material change in how the right of redemption

    is to be exercised. The High Court seems to have accepted the

    contention that the right of redemption under the amended  Section

    13(8)  would have to be construed in accordance with the restrictions

    engrafted in clauses (i) and (ii), but only in respect of where the sale

    is by way of inviting quotations or private treaty, and thereby

    proceeds to hold as under: - 
 
     (i)   First, the High Court proceeds to construe the purport of

           Section 13(8)  to give to the borrower a definite and sufficient

          period of time for redeeming the secured asset, by ensuring


                                                                Page 97 of 139 
       that during this period, the secured creditor does not take any

       step towards the sale or transfer of the secured asset.
 
 (ii)   Secondly, in view of the significance given to the date of

       publication of auction notice under the amended  Section 13(8) ,

       it rejects the contention that the right of redemption would

       have to be construed in accordance with the restrictions

       encapsulated under clauses (i) and (ii) of the provision, insofar

       as public auctions or tenders is concerned. According to the

       High Court where the sale is through either public auction or

       tender, there the right of redemption would extinguish on the

       date of publication of the auction notice itself. As before the

       publication of such auction notice, there exists no possibility

       for the secured creditor to take steps towards the sale or

       transfer of the secured asset, in view of the clear mandate

       requiring the secured creditor to wait for thirty-days before it

       can publish the notice for auction or tender, as the case may

       be. Thus, there is no occasion for clauses (i) and (ii) of  Section

       13(8)  to be attracted, and as such the right of redemption

       would have to be construed in accordance with the

       substantive part of the provision instead.
 

                                                             Page 98 of 139 
      (iii) Thirdly, where however, the sale of the secured asset is either

          through public auction or tender, there, the possibility of the

          secured creditor proceeding with such sale is palpable, in the

          absence of any requirement to maintain a clear 30-days gap. It

          is for such situations that clauses (i) and (ii) of the amended

           Section 13(8)  would come into the play, and the right of

          redemption would then necessarily have to be construed to

          continue to exist till the date of actual transfer, as was the

          position under the unamended  Section 13(8)  as per  Mathew

          Varghese  (supra). 
 


  126. The line of reasoning adopted by  Venshiv Pharma Chem  (supra) to

    hold that the right of redemption under the amended  Section 13(8) 

    of the SARFAESI Act would extinguish differently for different

    modes of sale, appears to be incorrect. There is nothing in the bare

    text of  Section 13(8)  which would suggest that clause(s) (i) and (ii) of

    the said provision are confined in their application to some modes

    of sale and not to others. The restrictions on the transfer of the

    secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale, under clause(s) (i)

    and (ii) of  Section 13(8)  are general and omnibus in nature. 


                                                                Page 99 of 139 
  127. The different modes or methods for dealing or disposing the secured

     asset, as enumerated in the substantive portion of  Section 13(8)  of

     the SARFAESI Act are all for the general purpose of facilitating the

     transfer of the secured asset, either by way of lease, assignment or

     sale of the secured assets. This is made clear from the general

     expression “for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured

     assets,—&quot; used in the substantive portion of  Section 13(8) . Had the

     intent of the legislature been otherwise, then it would have not used

     the same general expression “transferred by way of lease assignment or

     sale” or “transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale” in clauses (i) and

       (ii), respectively and instead would have specifically alluded to the

     specific mode(s) of sale, for which such clauses are intended. We

     shall discuss this issue in detail in the later parts of this judgment.


  128. From above it is manifestly clear that the rigours of  Section 13(8)  of

     the SARFAESI Act, including clause(s) (i) and (ii) therein, are

     intended to apply equally irrespective of whether the transfer / sale

     of the secured asset happens to be by either public auction, or

     obtaining quotations or inviting tenders or private treaty, as all of

     the said methods are inevitably for the same purpose i.e., for the
                                                                   Page 100 of 139 
      transfer of secured asset, by lease, assignment or sale of the secured

      asset.
 
 
  129. However, at the same time, as aforementioned the Proviso to Rule

      8(6) read with Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules, stipulates that the

      notice of sale of secured asset has to be published in the newspaper,

      only where the mode of sale is by way of either auction or inviting

      tenders from the public. For all other remaining modes of sale,

      namely, by obtaining quotations or private treaty, there is no

      requirement to publish the notice of sale.
 
 
  130. Thus, in order to better understand the true import of the expression

      “before the date of publication of notice”, it would apposite to

      understand the form and manner of notice or notice(s), as the case

      may be, that is required under the SARFAESI Rules for the transfer

      of secured asset, by lease, assignment or sale of the secured asset.


ii.   There is only a single Notice of Sale required under Rule 8(6) of
      the SARFAESI Rules for transfer of secured asset, by lease,
      assignment or sale.
 
 
  131. The entire controversy on the interpretation of  Section 13(8)  of the

      SARFAESI Act, revolves around the interpretation of the expression

                                                                Page 101 of 139 
     “before the date of publication”. The reason why the said expression

     has been construed by various High Courts to mean the notice of

     auction is due to the prevailing misconception, that two separate

     notices are required, where the mode of sale of the secured asset is

     either by way of public auction or tender. This misconception has

     largely been because of a misreading of the provision of Rule(s) 8

     and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules.
 
 
a.   Contradictory Views of the High Court on the subject.


    132. The Telangana High Court in  Venshiv Pharma Chem  (supra) and

      K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta  (supra) have held that the secured creditor

     is required to give a total of two notices; a thirty-days’ notice of sale

     to the borrower and thereafter, another thirty-days public notice of

     auction, under the Proviso to Rule 8(6) and Rule 9(1), respectively.

     This according to the Telangana High Court is necessary, to afford

     the borrower a reasonable period for exercising his right to redeem

     the mortgage, which under the amended  Section 13(8)  is

     extinguished on the date of publication of the auction notice, thus, a

     clear 30-days gap has to be maintained between the date of service




                                                                 Page 102 of 139 
    of notice under Rule 8(6) to the borrower, and the publication of the

    auction notice under Rule 9(1).  
 
 
     133. This view has also found favour with the Andhra Pradesh High

    Court in  Sri. Sai Annadhatha Polymers  (supra) and Amme

    Srisailam (supra), by placing reliance on  Mathew Varghese  (supra),

    to hold that although  Section 13(8)  underwent an amendment, yet

    Rule(s) 8(6) and 9(1) remain unchanged, thus, the ratio of  Mathew

    Varghese  (supra) insofar as the requirement of giving two notices

    with a thirty-days gap each, under the SARFAESI Rules, would

    continue to hold field.   
 
 
   134. Whereas, another bench of the Telangana High Court in Aditya

    Industries (supra) and  Indian Overseas Bank v. RA Pure Life

    Science Ltd. &amp; Ors.  reported in 2023 SCC OnLine TS 634 have partly

    taken a contrary view.    The High Court appears to have expressed

    agreement to the proposition that although Rule(s) 8(6) and 9(1) of

    the SARFAESI Rules contemplates two distinct notices being issued,

    yet it has disagreed with expressed by  Venshiv Pharma Chem 

    (supra) and  K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta  (supra), that there must be a

    thirty-days gap between the issuance of each of the said notices. It


                                                             Page 103 of 139 
     held that there is no requirement for the secured creditor to give the

     two notices of sale with a thirty-day gap between each, before it can

     transfer or sell the secured asset. It observed that the SARFAESI

     Rules nowhere stipulates a thirty-day gap between the service of

     notice of sale to the borrower and publication thereof, in the

     newspaper. According to it, both the notices can be issued by the

     secured creditor simultaneously. All that is required by Rule(s) 8(6)

     read with 9(1) is that there is a thirty-days gap between the issuance

     of the aforesaid notice or notice(s), as the case may be, and the actual

     date of sale of the secured asset.  
 
 

   135. On the other hand, one another Bench of the Telangana High Court

     in  Concern Readymix  (supra) have held that the SARFAESI Rules,

     more particularly, Rule(s) 8(6) and 9(1), contemplate the issuance of

     only one notice of sale by the secured creditor. It observed that Rule

     9(1) does not stipulate the requirement of publishing a separate

     notice, rather it merely makes a reference to publish the self-same

     notice that has to be served to the borrower under Rule 8(6).

     According to it, if Rule(s) 8(6) and 9(1) are construed to mean that

     two separate notices are required, then it would result in the


                                                                Page 104 of 139 
     borrower having a period of 60-days, which is repugnant to the

     statutory stipulated period of thirty-days’ or fifteen-days’ time, as

     the case may be, under the SARFAESI Rules. Thus, it held that there

     has to be only one notice under Rule 8(6), and it would be sufficient

     for Rule 9(1), if the date of auction falls beyond 30 days from the date

     of issuance of such notice, and publication thereof.   In this regard,

     reliance was placed by the Telangana High Court on the decision of

     this Court in  Canara Bank v. M. Amarender Reddy  reported in (2017)

     4 SCC 735. 
 
 

  136. Thus, there appears to be a divergence of opinion as regards, first,

     whether Rule 8(6) read with Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules

     contemplate issuance of two distinct and separate notices of sale;

     and second, notwithstanding the aforesaid, whether there is a

     requirement to maintain a gap of thirty-days each, between the

     service of notice or notice(s) of sale to the borrower, and the

     publication of such notice or notice(s) in the newspaper in terms of

     Rule(s) 8(6) and 9(1), respectively.
 
 
b.   The Scheme under the SARFAESI Rules envisages one single
     composite Notice of Sale of Immovable Secured Asset.


                                                                Page 105 of 139 
  137. We shall now look into the unique scheme for the transfer of

     immovable secured asset, by way of lease, assignment or sale,

     formed by Rule(s) 8(6), 8(7) and 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules.


  138. Rule 8 sub-rule (6) of the SARFAESI Rules stipulates that the

     authorized officer of the secured creditor shall serve the borrower a

     notice of thirty-days for the sale of the immovable property by any

     of the modes, enunciated in the preceding Rule 8(5).


  139. The Proviso to Rule 8(6) further enjoins a duty upon the secured

     creditor, to cause a public notice, in the form and manner specified

     therein, where the sale of the immovable property happens to be

     either by way of public auction or tender. Unlike Rule 8(6), which

     would apply, in respect of all modes of sale of the immovable

     secured asset in terms of Rule 8(5), the Proviso thereto, has no

     application whatsoever, if the sale of the immovable secured asset,

     is not by way of public auction or tender i.e., the said duty cast on

     the secured creditor under the Proviso would have no application,

     if the sale is by way of obtaining quotations or private treaty.


  140. Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules provides that no sale of the

     immovable property, in terms of Rule 8(5), shall take place before
                                                               Page 106 of 139 
     the expiry of thirty-days from the date on which the public notice of

     sale is published in newspaper, as required under the Proviso to

     Rule 8(6), or notice of sale has been served to the borrower.



  141. We must be mindful to not lose sight of Rule 8(7) of the  SARFAESI

     Act , which is significant to the interpretation of Rule 8(6) and 9(1) of

     the SARFAESI Rules. Rule 8(7) of the SARFAESI stipulates an

     additional condition upon the secured creditor to affix and upload

     every notice of sale, containing the relevant terms and conditions of

     the sale, as specified under the said Rule, on the conspicuous part of

     the immovable secured asset proposed to be sold and, on its website,

     respectively.
 
 

  142. The foremost reason, why we say that for the transfer of an

     immovable secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale, under

     the SARFAESI Rules by the secured creditor only a single composite

     notice is required, is in view of the language couched in the

     provisions of Rule(s) 8 and 9, respectively.
 
 
  143. The marginal note appended to Rule 9 of the SARFAESI Rules reads

     “Time of sale, Issue of Sale Certificate an delivery of possession, etc.”. Thus,
                                                                       Page 107 of 139 
     it is clear that Rule 9 only provides when the sale of the immovable

     secured asset may take place along with the formalities by which

     such sale would be concluded. The “public notice” alluded to in Rule

     9(1) does not speak of any separate or distinct notice. This is manifest

     from the expression “as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6) of Rule

     8 or notice of sale has been served to the borrower” used in the said Rule.


  144. Rule 8(6) is the first instance, in the entire scheme of the SARFAESI

     Rules where any reference is made to a notice, insofar as sale of

     immovable secured asset is concerned. It provides that the secured

     creditor shall serve to the borrower a “notice of [...] for sale” and cause

     a “public notice”, if the sale happens to be by way of public auction

     or tender. In this regard, Rule 8(7) is particularly of significance,

     which requires that every “notice of sale” be affixed on the

     conspicuous part of the immovable property to be sold as-well as

     uploaded on the website of the secured creditor.



  145. The requirement of notice by the secured creditor for the transfer of

     secured asset, by lease, assignment or sale under the SARFAESI

     Rules has to be culled out from Rule 8(6).
 
 

                                                                  Page 108 of 139 
  146. As already stated, Rule 8(6), is the only provision which speak about

     ‘notice of sale’, all other provisions, thereafter, only relate back to

     Rule 8(6) by making a reference to the notice mentioned under the

     said rule. Rule 8(7), simpliciter uses the word “every notice of sale”

     indicating, that it is not stipulating the requirement of giving any

     distinct or sperate notice. Similarly, Rule 9(1) also juxtaposes the

     word “public notice” with the expression “as referred to in the proviso

     to sub-rule (6) of Rule 8 or notice of sale has been served to the borrower”,

     again fortifying that its merely referencing the notice of sale as

     required under Rule 8(6) or the Proviso thereunder. The Proviso to

     Rule 8(6), is also similar in nature, inasmuch as it uses the expression

     “shall cause a public notice” in the form as delineated in Appendix IV-

     A to the SARFAESI Rules.
 
 
  147. The Appendix to the SARFAESI Rules is also instructive in

     answering whether the SARFAESI Rules, contemplate giving two

     distinct notice(s) or one single composite notice. The Appendix to

     the SARFAESI Rules contains the statutorily prescribed standard

     pro-forma format and forms for the various applications, notices,

     and communications contemplated under the Rules. Interestingly,

     the Appendix to the SARFAESI Rules prescribes a specific form and
                                                                    Page 109 of 139 
     format only for the notice as envisaged under the Proviso to Rule

     8(6).
 
 
  148. Significantly, no corresponding form or format has been provided

     for the notices ostensibly envisaged under Rule 8(7) or Rule 9(1).

     This omission of any prescribed form for notices under Rule 8(7) or

     9(1) indicates that it is really Rule 8(6) which is the substantive

     provision that stipulates the requirement of issuance of a notice of

     sale. The other provisions, particularly Rule 8(7) or 9(1) of the

     SARFAESI Rules, do not contemplate issuance of a distinct notice

     thereunder, separate and apart from the one under Rule 8(6). Rather

     the mentioning of “notice of sale” in Rule 8(7) and 9(1) is nothing but

     a reference back to the self-same notice of sale under Rule 8(6).


  149. We are conscious of the fact, that the Appendix IV-A to the

     SARFAESI Rules, specifically mentions that the said prescribed

     format is only for the notice envisaged under the Proviso to Rule

     8(6). Since there is no form or format prescribed for the notice of sale

     that has to be served to the borrower in terms of the substantive part

     of Rule 8(6), it could be said that, the reason why the legislature

     thought fit to prescribe a standard format only for the notice


                                                                Page 110 of 139 
     contemplated under the Proviso to Rule 8(6) and not the other Rules,

     was because of the public nature of such notice.
 
 
  150. To obviate the possibility of any ambiguity, mala-fide, deception,

     prejudice or unclarity in the sale process of the secured asset being

     caused to the public for whom such notices are intended,

     advertently or inadvertently by the secured creditor, the legislature

     thought fit to prescribe a standard format. In such circumstances, it

     could be said that mere omission of any prescribed form or format

     in the Appendix for the other rules, namely Rule 8(7) or 9(1) cannot

     be possibly construed to mean that there is no requirement for two

     distinct notices of sale.
 
 

  151. However, a closer look of Appendix IV-A to the SARFAESI Rules

     would reveal both Rule 8(6) and the Proviso to Rule 8(6) are

     speaking of one single notice. Rule 8(6) and the Proviso thereto, do

     not contemplate issuance of two distinct notices, where the mode of

     sale happens to be by way of public auction or tender. We say so,

     because, of the words “Notice is hereby given to the public in general and

     in particular to the Borrower (s) and Guarantor (s)” used in the

     prescribed standard form for notice under the Proviso to Rule 8(6)
                                                                  Page 111 of 139 
provided in the Appendix IV-A. The said prescribed form in

Appendix IV-A is reproduced below: -
 
 
                            “APPENDIX IV-A
                       [See proviso to Rule 8(6)]
             (Sale notice for sale of immovable properties)

      E-Auction Sale Notice for Sale of Immovable Assets under the
     Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
    Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002  read with proviso to
    Rule 8(6) of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002
    Notice is hereby given to the public in general and in
    particular to the Borrower (s) and Guarantor (s) that the
    below described immovable property mortgaged/charged to the
    Secured          Creditor,      the        constructive/physical
    …………………(whichever is applicable) possession of which
    has been taken by the Authorised Officer of
    …………………………… Secured Creditor, will be sold on “As
    is where is”, “As is what is”, and “Whatever there is” on
    ………………………………(mention date of the sale), for
    recovery of Rs.…………………………………due to the
    ……………………………                      Secured      Creditor     from
    …………………………………………………………………
    … (mention name of the Borrower (s)) and
    …………………………………………………………(mention
    name of the Guarantor (s)). The reserve price will be
    Rs………………………………………and the earnest money
    deposit will be Rs………………………………………. (Give
    short description of the immovable property with known
    encumbrances, if any) For detailed terms and conditions of the
    sale,     please    refer  to     the    link    provided     in
    …………………………… Secured Creditor&#x27;s website i.e. www.
    (give details of website)
    Date:
                                                    Authorised Officer
    Place : ]
                                      (Emphasis supplied)



                                                               Page 112 of 139 
  152. The mandatory requirement for stipulation of the words “Notice is

     hereby given to the public in general and in particular to the Borrower (s)

     and Guarantor (s)” (emphasis) in the prescribed format under the

     Appendix IV-A, makes it manifestly clear that the “public notice”

     contemplated under the Proviso to Rule 8(6), is to be addressed not

     just to the public in general but also to the borrower(s) and the

     guarantor(s) to the secured asset. As a natural corollary to the

     aforesaid, even though, the Proviso to Rule 8(6) only goes so far as

     to say that, in case of public auction or tender, the secured creditor

     shall cause a public notice, yet the Appendix IV-A would reveal that

     this notice to the public is also a notice to the borrower and the

     guarantors to the secured asset, i.e., effectively, a single composite

     notice under both Rule 8(6) and the Proviso thereto.



  153. It is not difficult to comprehend why, the mentioning or use of the

     words “shall cause a public notice” or “every notice of sale” or “public

     notice” in Rule(s) 8(6) Proviso, 8(7) and 9(1), respectively, is only a

     reference to the notice of sale required under Rule 8(6) and not a

     stipulation for causing or publishing a separate, distinct notice




                                                                  Page 113 of 139 
     under each of the aforesaid rules in addition to the notice of sale

     required under Rule 8(6).
 
 

  154. The reason why we say, that Rule 8(6) of the SARFAESI Rules is the

     sole constituent provision stipulating the requirement of giving a

     notice of sale is because, ordinarily, when the secured asset given as

     security to the secured creditor is proposed to be sold off by it, the

     primary party that has a vested interest in knowing about such

     intention to sell, is the borrower. There can be no sale of a security

     interest of the borrower by the secured asset, by the secured creditor,

     without first, informing the borrower of its intention to sell the same.

     This is why, irrespective of what the mode of sale is in terms of Rule

     8(5), be it by obtaining quotations or inviting tenders, or holding

     public auction or by private treaty, a notice of the intended sale of

     the secured asset by the secured creditor, by any of the aforesaid

     method, has to be mandatorily given to the borrower.


  155. All the other provisions pertaining to the notice of sale, namely the

     Proviso to Rule 8(6), Rule 8(7) and Rule 9(1), only govern the manner

     in which such notice of sale contemplated under Rule 8(6), has to be

     given. The said rules only go so far as to stipulate certain additional
                                                                Page 114 of 139 
     conditions or requirements in effectuating the notice of sale under

     Rule 8(6), but do not by any stretch stipulate the requirement for

     causing a completely separate and distinct notice, in addition to the

     notice of sale under Rule 8(6) of the SARFAESI Rules.


  156. In the entire gamut of the scheme formed by Rule(s) 8(6), the Proviso

     thereto, 8(7) and 9(1), all speak of only one single composite notice

     of sale, the only difference between these provisions, is the manner

     in which such notice of sale is to be effectuated and given. Rule 8(6)

     speaks of serving the notice of sale to borrower for a period of thirty-

     days. On the other hand, where the public is sought to be involved

     in sale process, either by auction or by inviting tender, then the same

     notice of sale has to be published in the newspaper. As per Rule 8(7),

     apart from serving the notice of sale and / or causing it in a

     newspaper, as the case may be, the self-same notice of sale has to

     also be affixed on the conspicuous part of the immovable secured

     asset and also uploaded on the website of the secured creditor.


  157. Thus, it can be seen from above, that Rule 8(6) and the Proviso

     appended to it, Rule 8(7) and Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules all

     speak of only one single notice of sale. The distinction lies only in


                                                                Page 115 of 139 
     the manner in which it is to be given, inasmuch as under Rule(s) 8(6),

     Proviso thereto, 8(7) and 9(1), the same notice is required to be

     served to the borrower, published in the newspaper, affixed on the

     secured asset &amp; uploaded on the website, and maintain a 30-day gap

     from the date of actual sale, respectively. Despite the variance in the

     manner in which the notice of sale is to be given or effectuated under

     the aforesaid rules, it nevertheless still continues to be one single

     composite notice only.
 
 
     158. The reason which appears to have weighed with the High Courts in

      Venshiv Pharma Chem  (supra) and  K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta 

     (supra)  Sri. Sai Annadhatha Polymers  (supra) for arriving at the

     finding that two separate notices are required under the SARFAESI

     Rules; one under Rule 8(6) and the other under Rule 9(1), was due

     to the use of the word “public notice” in Rule 9(1), which the High

     Courts understood to mean a separate and distinct notice that has to

     be published by the secured creditor, apart from the notice that has

     to be served to the borrower under Rule 8(6).   
 
 
  159. The word “public notice” used in 9(1) cannot be singled out and

     construed devoid of its context. It has to be understood in


                                                               Page 116 of 139 
     conjunction with the expression “as referred to in the proviso to sub-

       rule (6) of Rule 8 or notice of sale has been served to the borrower”.


  160. That apart, if at all, a mere mentioning of the word “notice” in Rule

     9(1) is the basis for construing that two separate notices are required

     for the sale of immovable secured asset under the SARFAESI Rules,

     then it would amount to overlooking the provision of Rule 8(7). Rule

     8(7) also mentions the word “notice of sale”, that has to be affixed on

     the conspicuous part of the immovable property to be sold as-well

     as uploaded on the website of the secured creditor. If this

     proposition of law by the High Courts is accepted, then it would

     result in three-separate notices being required under the SARFAESI

     Rules i.e., under Rule 8(6), Proviso to Rule 8(6) read with Rule 9(1)

     (where applicable) and Rule 8(7). While construing a provision,

     different standards cannot be adopted for one set of provisions and

     conveniently ignored for some other provision, particularly when

     all the provisions are substantively the same, at least in nature.


  161. The term “notice of sale” is an umbrella term, which refers to and

     includes the giving of notice for sale by the secured creditor in all

     the forms and manner that he is obligated to do, under the relevant


                                                                     Page 117 of 139 
     SARFAESI Rules, depending upon the mode of sale elected by the

     secured creditor. Thus, whenever, the secured creditor gives a notice

     for sale in a specific manner either under Rule 8(6), the Proviso

     thereto read with Rule 9(1) or Rule 8(7), he is not said to be giving

     different or distinct notices, they all are parts of one single composite

     “notice of sale”. Until the secured creditor has given the “notice of

     sale” in all forms and manner that he is required to give under the

     SARFAESI Rules, including the thirty-days gap between the date

     when the notice of sale is served, affixed and published, whichever

     is later, as the case may be, till the date of actual sale, the “notice of

     sale” for the secured creditor would remain incomplete.


  162. It is only after, the secured creditor has given the “notice of sale” in

     all forms and manner that he is required to give under the

     SARFAESI Rules, and maintained a period of thirty-days from the

     date on which he served, affixed or published the notice of sale,

     whichever is later, would such “notice of sale” be considered valid

     in the eyes of law.
 
 
     163. At this stage, we may clarify, with a view to obviate any confusion

     that, when this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra) upheld and approved


                                                                  Page 118 of 139 
    the decisions of the  Sri Sai Annadhatha Polymers  (supra) and  K.V.V.

    Prasad Rao Gupta  (supra), this Court never held that two separate

    noticed with a time-gap of thirty-days each was required under the

    SARFAESI Rules, more particularly, the Proviso to Rule 8(6) and

    Rule 9(1), respectively.       What has been conveyed in so many words

    by this Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra) is that the decisions of the  Sri

    Sai Annadhatha Polymers  (supra) and  K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta 

    (supra) lay down the correct position of law insofar as the

    interpretation of the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act is

    concerned, more particularly that by virtue of the amendment, the

    right of redemption of the borrower now stands significantly

    curtailed.     The relevant observations made by this Court in  Bafna

    Motors  (supra) read as under: - 
 
            “(vii) The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in  Sri Sai
         Annadhatha Polymers  (supra) and the decision of the Telangana
         High Court in the case of  K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta  (supra) lay
         down the correct position of law while interpreting the amended
          Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act.”

                                         (Emphasis supplied)  
   164. This Court in  Bafna Motors  (supra) never examined the interplay

    between the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act with the




                                                               Page 119 of 139 
    SARFAESI Rules, more particularly, Rule 8(6), the Proviso thereto

    and Rule 9(1). 
 
 

   165. Similarly, we also do not see any reason why there should be a

    thirty-days gap maintained between when the notice of sale is given

    to the borrower under Rule 8(6), and when the notice of sale is

    published in the newspaper in terms of the Proviso thereto. The

    notion, that a thirty-days gap ought to be maintained between the

    notice of sale to the borrower and the eventual publication of such

    notice in the newspaper, was due to the decision of this Court in

     Mathew Varghese  (supra), which had interpreted Rule 9(1), more

    particularly the words “or” used in the expression “from the date on

    which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers as referred to in

    the proviso to sub-rule (6) of rule 8 or notice of sale has been served to the

    borrower” as “and”. 
 
 
    166. We need not dwell much on the understanding that the learned

    Judges had in  Mathew Varghese  (supra), for two good reasons, first,

    this interpretation was qua the unamended  Section 13(8)  of the

    SARFAESI Act, where reading the word “or” used in Rule 9(1) as

    “and” would have had no catastrophic consequences, and secondly,

                                                                    Page 120 of 139 
     due to the subsequent decision of this Court in  Amarender Reddy 

     (supra). With the advent of the amended regime, the right of

     redemption of the borrower stands significantly curtailed in contrast

     to what was the position prior to the amendment. Before the

     amendment, the borrower had the right to redeem the mortgage at

     any time before the secured asset was transferred, but with the

     amended regime, the legislature has thought fit to curtail such right

     prior to the date when the secured asset is transferred, more

     particularly, at the time of “publication of notice”. However, since

     not all modes of sale envisaged under Rule 8(5), contemplate

     issuance of a “public notice of sale” and service of notice of sale to

     the borrower is considered sufficient, Rule 9(1) would only have

     effect, if the words “or” is read as it is, such that where no public

     notice is required, there the right of redemption would extinguish

     and consequently the sale can take place only on the expiry of thirty-

     days from the date of service of the notice of sale to the borrower.  



  167. Lastly, the reason behind the stipulation of time period of 30 days in

     Rules 8(6) and 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules respectively is that in the

     former rule, once the notice of sale is served to borrower by the


                                                               Page 121 of 139 
     secured creditor indicating its intention to sell the secured asset, the

     borrower should have sufficient time to try and redeem the secured

     asset, it is for this purpose the period of 30 days has been stipulated.

     Whereas, the rationale behind the stipulation of 30 days gap

     between the date of notice of auction and/or notice of sale being

     served and the date of actual sale is so that whichever mode of sale

     is involved, a sufficient amount of time is given to the prospective

     purchasers, to ensure that the mode of sale fetches the maximum

     possible price in the least time. This is to avoid underbidding,

     undervaluation, collusion, fraud, inadequate pricing etc. However,

     there is no rationale whatsoever as to why the gap is necessary.



   168. Both the objects that is sought to be achieved by the time period

     stipulated in Rules 8(6) and 9(1) will be fulfilled if both the notices

     are issued simultaneously as long as the period of 30 days is adhered

     to. It is for this reason the decision in  Amarender Reddy  (supra) held

     that there is no rhyme or reason why the time be maintained and

     thus, both the notices can be issued simultaneously. These

     observations become even more significant in view of the amended

      Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act as explained above. Any other


                                                                Page 122 of 139 
    view would not only be repugnant to the bare text of the SARFAESI

    Rules but rather also undermine the object of enabling the

    expeditious recovery of loan with maximum returns. 



  169. From the above discussion, we have no hesitation in holding the

    following: -
 
     (i)    Rule(s) 8(6), the Proviso thereto, Rule 8(7) and Rule 9(1) of the

           SARFAESI Rules do not speak of any separate or distinct

           notice of sale that is required to be issued by the secured

           creditor for the transfer of the secured asset by way of lease,

           assignment or sale in accordance with any of the methods

           enumerated in Rule 8(5).
 
     (ii)   The different manner in which the notice of sale has to be

           served, caused, published, affixed, uploaded as stipulated in

           Rule(s) 8(6) and 8(7) of the SARFAESI Rules, do not constitute

           separate notices of sale by themselves, they are part and parcel

           of one single composite intended “notice of sale” of the

           secured asset by the secured creditor, by any of the mode of

           sale listed in Rule 8(5). All of the aforesaid rules are concerned

           with a single composite “notice of sale”, and the only


                                                                Page 123 of 139 
       distinction between the said rules, is the manner in which the

       said “notice of sale” has to be given, on the basis of which

       relevant rule or rules are applicable, as the case may be.
 
 (iii) Similarly, the stipulation under Rule 9(1) of a thirty-days gap

       between the date of publication of notice of sale and the date

       of actual sale does not impute a distinct characteristic to the

       public notice in the newspaper in contrast to the notice of sale

       that is served to the borrower. As is evident from Appendix

       IV-A to the SARFAESI Rules, the public notice of sale in

       newspaper as-well the notice of sale served to the borrower

       are one and the same, for the purpose of Rule 9(1).
 
 (iv)   The embargo enshrined under Rule 9(1), that no sale, in the

       first instance shall take place before the expiry of thirty-days,

       would be reckoned from the date of issuance of the “notice of

       sale”, which would include both the public notice of sale in the

       newspaper and the service thereof to the borrower, whichever

       is later.
 
 (v)    Under Rule 8(6) read with Rule 9(1) both the notice of sale can

       be   served   as-well   as   published    in   the    newspaper,

       simultaneously on the same date. All that is required under


                                                             Page 124 of 139 
             Rule 9(1) is that thirty-day gap is maintained between when

             the notice of sale is served, affixed and published, whichever

             is later, as the case may be, till the date of actual sale.
  &lt;&lt;

iii.   What is the import of the expression “before the date of
       publication” used in  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act.


  170. We turn back to the provision of  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act.

         The amended provision of  Section 13(8)  attaches vital importance to

       date of publication of notice for, namely public auction, invitation of

       quotation or tender, or private treat, for the purpose of the right of

       redemption of the borrower. As per the plain language of the

       provision, the moment the notice for holding auction, obtaining

       quotation, inviting tender or conducting private treaty is

       “published”, the borrower’s right of redemption would be

       extinguished.
 
 

  171. However, as already discussed, when the sale is through obtaining

       quotation or private treaty, then as per Rule 8 and 9 of the  SARFAESI

       Act , there is no requirement of publication of notice for such sale. In

       such circumstances, the expression “before the date of publication”

       used in the amended  Section 13(8)  is frustrated, insofar as the sale is

                                                                    Page 125 of 139 
     being through invitation of quotations or private treaty. The

     language couched in the provision of  Section 13(8)  makes no

     distinction between what mode or manner of sale is adopted by the

     secured creditor, insofar as the application of the said provision is

     concerned.
 
 


  172. In the foregoing part of this judgment, we have explained how for

     the transfer of the immovable secured asset by way of lease,

     assignment or transfer, in any mode stipulated in Rule 8(5) a notice

     of sale is required. Rule 8(5) prescribes the different modes by which

     such secured asset may be transferred / sold by the secured creditor.


  173. The subsequent rules, more particularly Rule 8(6), the Proviso

     thereto read with Rule 9(1) and Rule 8(7) prescribe the manner in

     which the secured creditor is required to give the notice of sale for

     each mode of sale, enumerated in Rule 8(5). From a combined

     reading of these rules, it is manifest that the form and manner in

     which the notice of sale is required to be given, differs on what mode

     of sale is adopted.
 
 


                                                              Page 126 of 139 
  174. We have explained that the mere difference or variation in the

     manner in which the notice of sale has to be given under each of the

     aforesaid rules, depending upon the mode of sale elected by the

     secured creditor, will not by itself constitute the said notices of sale,

     as distinct and separate. Although, the provisions under which the

     secured creditor is required to give the notice of sale differ, on the

     basis of the mode of sale chosen, and even though the manner in

     which they are to be given are also at variance with one another, yet

     all these separate modes of effectuating the notice for sale under

     Rule 8(6), the Proviso thereto read with Rule 9(1) and Rule 8(7), are

     nothing but part and parcel of one single composite intended “notice

     of sale”.
 
 

  175. As already afore-stated, the term “notice of sale” is an umbrella

     term, which refers to and includes the giving of notice for sale by the

     secured creditor in all the forms and manner that he is obligated to

     do, under the relevant SARFAESI Rules, depending upon the mode

     of sale elected by the secured creditor.
 
 


                                                                 Page 127 of 139 
  176. Similarly, despite the different mode or manner in which the notice

     of sale is to be given by the secured creditor in terms of Rule 8(6), the

     Proviso thereto read with Rule 9(1), and for that matter even Rule

     8(7), if the aforesaid rules are construed to refer and mean parts of a

     single composite notice of sale, then irrespective of the variation in

     the manner in which each rule contemplates the giving of such

     notice of sale, the discord in the language of  Section 13(8)  of the

     SARFAESI Act, more particularly, the expression “before the date of

     publication” may be resolved, notwithstanding the absence of any

     actual publication of notice of sale in some modes of sale.



  177. Thus, for the purpose of the amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI

     Act, the expression “before the date of publication” used therein, has to

     be construed to refer and mean the publication of a valid “notice of

     sale” for the secured asset, although such publication may vary

     depending upon the mode of sale chosen by the secured creditor.


  178. The word “publication” used in  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act,

     has to be understood to mean and include the service, publication in

     newspaper, and the affixation and uploading of the “notice of sale”,

     as may be required under the SARFAESI Rules. Wherever, the
                                                                 Page 128 of 139 
     chosen mode of sale requires the secured creditor to effectuate the

     “notice of sale” in any or all of the aforesaid manner, as the case may

     be, the expiry of thirty-days as required under Rule 9(1) from the

     day when the secured creditor complies with the requirement of

     giving the notice of sale, as per the applicable rules, would be the

     date on which the secured creditor is said to have validly published

     the “notice of sale” and it would be this date on which the right of

     redemption of the borrower would stand extinguished.


D.   Whether, the Amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act is
     retrospective in nature?
 
 

  179. We now proceed to deal with the principal contention raised on

     behalf of the borrowers that the unamended  Section 13(8)  of the

     SARFAESI Act would apply in the present case since the loan was

     obtained on 06.01.2016 and that the amendment to the said provision

     came into effect on 01.09.2016.
 
 

  180. We do not find any merit in the principal contention raised on behalf

     of the borrowers  referred to above . The amended provision

     extinguishes the right of redemption of the borrower in the event he


                                                               Page 129 of 139 
     fails to repay his dues and redeem the asset before publication of the Auction

     Notice. This unambiguous language used in the amended provision

     of  Section 13(8)  furthers the object and reasons of the  SARFAESI Act 

     for which it was enacted i.e., to ensure that the lender is able to

     enforce his security interest at the earliest and with least possible

     intervention of the courts.
 
 
  181. In the case on hand, indisputably, the loan account of the borrowers

     came to be classified as NPA on 31.12.2019. The Auction Notice was

     published by the Bank on 22.01.2021 and the secured assets were

     successfully auctioned on 26.02.2021.
 
 

  182. The Auction Sale amount was deposited on 20.03.2021 and the Sale

     Certificate was issued by the Bank in favour of the appellants herein

     on 22.03.2021.
 
 

  183. In such circumstances  referred to above , the right to redeem the

     secured asset stood extinguished on 22.01.2021. The borrowers

     could be said to have failed to pay the outstanding debt before the

     publication of the auction notice dated 22.01.23021 by which date the



                                                                     Page 130 of 139 
     amended  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act had already come into

     force.
 
 

  184.  In the aforesaid context, we may refer to and rely upon a decision of

     this Court in the case of  M.D. Frozen Foods  (supra) wherein this

     Court observed that the  SARFAESI Act  was brought into force with

     the object of providing expeditious procedure for recovery of large

     debts in NPAs. It held that the Act applied to all the claims which

     were alive when  SARFAESI Act  was into force. Certain Non-

     Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) were notified at various

     dates between 2002-2016 (when judgement came). The judgement

     says for the NBFC it would be similarly applicable. 


  185. Thus, logically from the above, if the claim is alive on 01.09.16 when

     the  Section 13(8)  is amended and the notice for auction is issued after

     01.09.16, then the amended section should apply otherwise an

     absurd situation would be created, that the Act which applied

     retroactively to &quot;alive claims&quot; prior to the Act coming into force on

     2002, but the amendment in it like in  Section 13(8)  would apply

     prospectively. That would create absurd situations.



                                                               Page 131 of 139 
  186.  The SARFAESI Act  intends to provide a remedy in respect of pre-

       existing loans and the interpretation that it would apply only to

     future debts would defeat the very purpose of that law, which was

     to reduce non-performing assets.
 
 
  187. It is no more res-integra that the presumption against retrospection

     does not apply to the legislation concerned merely with matters of

     procedure or of evidence ; on the contrary, provisions of that nature

     are to be construed as retrospective unless there is a clear indication

     that such was not the intention of Parliament.
 
 
  188. We may summarize the principles on retrospective application of

     legislations as under: -
 
      (i)     Presumption against retrospectivity is not applicable to

             enactments which merely affect procedure or change forum

             or are declaratory;
 
      (ii)    Retroactive/retrospective operation can be implicit in a

             provision construed in the context where it occurs ;
 
      (iii)   Given the context, a provision can be held to apply to cause of

             action after such provision comes into force, even though the




                                                                Page 132 of 139 
             claim on which the action may be based may be of an anterior

             date ; and

        (iv)   A remedial statute applies to pending proceedings and such

             application may not be taken to be retrospective if application

             is to be in future with reference to a pending cause of action ;
 
       (v)     SARFAESI Act  is a remedial statute intended to deal with

             problem of pre-existing loan transactions which need speedy

             recovery.&quot;
 

 189. A legislation, be it a statutory Act or a statutory Rule or a statutory

     Notification, may physically consist of words printed on papers but

     conceptually, it would be a great deal more than ordinary prose. Of

     the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted, the

     one established rule is that unless a contrary intention appears, a

     legislation is presumed not to be intended to have retrospective

     operation and the idea behind the rule is that a current law should

     govern current activities.
 
 

  190. If legislation confers a benefit on some persons without inflicting a

     corresponding detriment on some other person or on the public

     generally, and where to confer such benefit appears to have been the
                                                                 Page 133 of 139 
     legislators object, then the presumption would be that such

     legislation, giving it a purposive construction, would warrant a

     retrospective effect.
 
 

    191. Even otherwise, as held in  Narandas Karsondas  (supra) and  L.K.

     Trust  (supra), the right of redemption is not a contractual right, and

     rather a statutory right. Such right of redemption is generally

     governed by the  TP Act , and subject to material modification or

     alteration by any overriding special law in this regard. Even under

     the  SARFAESI Act , the right of redemption has been statutorily

     recognized and given effect to in  Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act,

     albeit subject to conditions stipulated thereunder insofar as its

     exercise is concerned.  
 
 
  192. Thus, the contention of the borrowers that their right of redemption

     has to necessarily be construed in accordance with the date of when

     the loan was obtained is completely misconceived. Any contractual

     terms of arrangement in respect of loan facility obtained will have

     no bearing or significance in respect of application of the statutory

     provision of the  SARFAESI Act  and the rules thereunder. Since the



                                                              Page 134 of 139 
      right of redemption under the  SARFAESI Act , is nothing but a

      manifestation of the statutory provision.
 
 
   193.  In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of this Court

      in  Authorized Office, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 

      reported in 2024 INSC 80 wherein one of us, J.B. Pardiwala J., held

      that where the legislature makes a conscious departure from the

      general law or contractual terms by providing for a particular

      consequence by way of a statutory provision, then the general law

      or contractual terms will have no application. 
 
 
VI.   FINAL CONCLUSION


   194. During the course of hearing, it was brought to our notice that that

      third party rights were being attempted to be created over the

      secured asset by the borrower, to the prejudice and detriment of the

      auction purchaser herein, in order to bypass the sanctity of the

      auction conducted and in a blatant disregard of the dignity of the

      proceedings before this Court.
 
 

   195. We make it abundantly clear that if any third party rights have been

      created over the said secured asset, the same would be non-est in
                                                              Page 135 of 139 
     view of this judgment. If at all we come to learn about any

     obstruction or resistance in handing over of the possession of the

     secured asset to the auction purchaser herein, either at the behest of

     the borrower or anyone else, we will proceed to take the strictest of

     actions against such person.
 
 

  196. Before we close this judgment, we would like to say something as

     regards the litigation which has unfolded before us. The RDBFI Act

     was the first legislative enactment that came into force in 1993. It was

     brough in order to facilitate expeditious recovery of debts by the

     bank, in order to ensure adequate liquidity and an overall healthy

     growth-oriented economy.
 
 

  197. However, due to the continuing rise in number of non-performing

     assets and a pathetically poor rate of loan recovery, the  SARFAESI

     Act  was enacted.  The SARFAESI Act  was envisioned as a watershed

     legislation and a panacea to the failure of the existing legislation in

     addressing the major problems that were being faced by banks and

     financial institutions in India with respect to the recovery of bad

     debts, by introducing enforcement of debt without intervention of


                                                                Page 136 of 139 
     courts through securitisation and asset reconstruction, a need

     highlighted by several committees. Various amendments have been

     made to the  SARFAESI Act  over the years to ensure that the Act

     continues to be potent in bringing about meaningful change to the

     poor credit culture prevailing in the country and put a check on the

     debt evasive acts of scrupulous borrowers.
 
 
  198. It has been almost twenty-three years, since the  SARFAESI Act  has

     remained in force. It is indeed very sad to note that even after these

     many years procedural issues such as the one involved in the case at

     hand, have continued to plague the legislation.



  199. Despite a catena of amendments, the glaring anomaly that we have

     come across in respect of Section 13(8) of the SARAFESI Act and

     Rule(s) 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules persists. The same renders

     the very mandate of the provision otiose.
 
 
  200. We are, however, at our wit’s end to note how the ill-wording of

      Section 13(8)  of the SARFAESI Act has resulted in a glaring

     inconsistency between the aforesaid provision and the SARFAESI

     Rules framed in lieu thereof. It is unfortunate that the ambiguities


                                                              Page 137 of 139 
     within the statutory provisions of the  SARFAESI Act  and Rules

     thereunder have left the interests of secured creditors and auction

     purchasers high and dry. The interpretative deadlock between the

     provision and the rules has single handedly resulted in a huge mess

     insofar as enforcement of security interest is concerned., giving birth

     to an endless pipeline of litigation clogging the specialized forums

     of the DRT and DRAT, that are expected to expeditiously decide

     matters of recovery of debt.
 
 
  201. We humbly urge the Ministry of Finance to take a serious look at

     these provisions and bring about necessary changes, before it is too

     late in the day.
 
 
  202. In the result, both the appeals succeed and are hereby allowed. The

     impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court is hereby

     set aside. The pending applications if any shall stand disposed of.




  203. The Registry shall forward one copy each of this judgment to all the

     High Courts across the country and also to the Principal Secretary,




                                                               Page 138 of 139 
     Ministry of Finance and the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Law &amp;

     Justice.
 
 


                                                 ....................................... J.
                                                                (J.B. Pardiwala)




                                               ....................................... J.
                                                                (R. Mahadevan)

New Delhi;
  22nd September, 2025.
 
 


                                                                   Page 139 of 139 
 