 M/S Sterling Agro Industries Ltd. vs Union Of India &amp; Ors. on 1 August, 2011 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2011 DELHI 174, (2011) 181 DLT 658 (2011) 106 ALLINDCAS 21 (DEL), (2011) 106 ALLINDCAS 21 (DEL), (2011) 106 ALLINDCAS 21 (DEL) (2011) 181 DLT 658, (2011) 181 DLT 658 

 Author:  Vikramajit Sen  

 Bench:  Chief Justice ,  Vikramajit Sen ,  A.K. Sikri ,  Sanjiv Khanna ,  Manmohan  

 *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI

%                                             Reserved on: 12th May, 2011
                                              Date of decision: 1st August, 2011

+ 1. W.P.(C) No.6570/2010

       M/s. Sterling Agro Industries Ltd.                ...    Petitioner
                          Through: Mr.M.P. Devnath with Mr. Manish
                                       Panda, Mr. Abhishek Anand and Mr.
                                       Tarun Jain, Advs.
                                       Mr.Atul Nanda, Amicus Curiae.
                    Versus

       Union of India &amp; Ors.                                   ... Respondents
                                              Through: Mr.A.S. Chandhiok,
                                              ASG with Ms. Sonia Sharma and
                                              Ms.Sandeep Bajaj, Advs. for UOI.
                                              Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                              Mukesh Anand with Mr. Shailesh
                                              Tiwari, Mr. Sumit Batra &amp; Mr.R.C.S.
                                              Bhadoria, Mr. Jayendra Advs. for R-2
                                              &amp; R-3.

2.     W.P.(C) No.8399/2009

       Jan Chetna                                               ...     Petitioner
                             Through:         Mr. Sanjay Parikh with Mr.Ritwick
                                              Dutta and Mr. Rahul Choudhary,
                                              Advs.
                    Versus
       Ministry of Environment and Forests &amp; Ors.      ...    Respondents
                         Through: Mr.D.K. Sharma, Adv. for R-1.
                                     Ms.Yogmaya Agnihotri, Adv for R-2.
                                     Mr.Ashwani Mata, Sr. Adv. with
                                     Mr.Rishi Agrawala, Mr.Akshay Ringe
                                     and Ms. Kanika Agnihotri, Ms. Misha
                                     Rohtagi, Mr. Vaibhav Agnihotri,
                                     Advs. for R-3.


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                            Page 1 of 34
                                               Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                              Sandeep Bajaj, Mr. G.S. Parwanda,
                                              Ms. Riya Kaul, Ms. Neha Rastogi,
                                              Advs. for UOI.

3.     W.P.(C) No.2447/2010

       Manu Jain                                               ...     Petitioner
                             Through:         Mr. R. Santhanam with Mr.A.P.
                                              Sinha, Advs.
                      Versus

       Smt. Neerja Shah &amp; Ors.                                  ...      Respondents
                         Through:             Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                              Sandeep Bajaj, Mr. G.S. Parwanda,
                                              Ms. Riya Kaul, Ms. Neha Rastogi,
                                              Advs. for UOI.
                                              Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                              Mukesh Anand with Mr. Shailesh
                                              Tiwari, Mr. Sumit Batra &amp; Mr.R.C.S.
                                              Bhadoria, Mr. Jayendra Advs.
                                              Department of Central Excise.
4.     W.P.(C) No.2448/2010

       M/s Bafna Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. &amp; Ors.       ...    Petitioners
                        Through: Mr. R. Santhanam with Mr.A.P.
                                      Sinha, Advs.
                  Versus

       Commissioner of Central Excise Delhi-IV &amp; Ors. ...       Respondents
                        Through: Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                     Sandeep Bajaj, Mr. G.S. Parwanda,
                                     Ms. Riya Kaul, Ms. Neha Rastogi,
                                     Advs. for UOI.
                                     Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                     Mukesh Anand with Mr. Shailesh
                                     Tiwari, Mr. Sumit Batra &amp; Mr.R.C.S.
                                     Bhadoria, Mr. Jayendra Advs.
                                     Department of Central Excise.


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                            Page 2 of 34
 5.     W.P.(C) No.6953/2010

       The Commissioner of Trade Tax &amp; Anr.          ...      Petitioners
                       Through: Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, ASG with Mr.
                                   Sandeep Bajaj, Mr. G.S. Parwanda,
                                   Ms. Riya Kaul, Ms. Neha Rastogi,
                                   Advs. for UOI.
                 Versus

       M/s. Ricoh India Ltd. &amp; Ors.       ...                              Respondents
                         Through: None.
       CORAM:
       HON&#x27;BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
       HON&#x27;BLE MR. JUSTICE VIKRAMAJIT SEN
       HON&#x27;BLE MR. JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI
       HON&#x27;BLE MR. JUSTICE SANJIV KHANNA
       HON&#x27;BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN

1    Whether reporters of the local papers be allowed to see the judgment?        Yes
2    To be referred to the Reporter or not?                                       Yes
3    Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest?                       Yes

DIPAK MISRA, CJ


       In view of the similitude of the principal controversy pertaining to the

jurisdiction of the High Court of Delhi being involved in these writ petitions,

they were heard analogously and as the said issue is the only question of

reference, it is being adverted to and dealt with by a singular order. For the

sake of convenience, we shall adumbrate the facts in W.P.(C) No.6570/2010.


2.      Expressing doubt with regard to the correctness and soundness of the

decision in New India Assurance Company Limited v. Union of India and



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                                  Page 3 of 34
 others, AIR 2010 Delhi 43 (FB), a Division Bench thought it appropriate to

refer the matter for reconsideration by a Full Bench and, accordingly, a Full

Bench was constituted and the Full Bench thought it appropriate that the

matter should be considered by a larger Bench and, accordingly, the larger

Bench has been constituted and the matter has been placed before us for the

aforesaid purpose.


3.     Before we proceed to analyze and appreciate the ratio decidendi in

New India Assurance Company Limited (supra), it is seemly to exposit the

necessitous primary facts averred in the present writ petition. The petitioner,

in invocation of the jurisdiction under  Article 226  of the Constitution of

India, has called in question the legal substantiality and sustainability of the

order No.214-15/10-Cus dated 9.7.2010, Annexure-1, passed by the

Revisionary Authority, Government of India, Ministry of Finance,

Department of Revenue, whereby the revision application preferred by the

petitioner has been dismissed concurring with the view expressed by the

Commissioner (Appeal-I), Customs &amp; Central Excise, Indore whereby the

appellate authority has given the stamp of approval to the order passed by

the Assistant Commissioner of Customs ICD, Malanpur who had expressed

the view that no drawback facility is admissible to the petitioner as it had, by



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 4 of 34
 way of procuring duty free inputs under Rule 19(2) of the Central Excise

Rules, 2002, contravened clause (ii) of the second proviso to Rule 3(1) of the

Central Excise Drawback Rules, 1995 and also condition No.7(F) of the

notification No.68/2007-Cus (NT) and condition No.8(F) of the notification

No.103/2008-Cus (NT).


4.     It is the admitted position that the petitioner - industry is situate at

Industrial Area, Q-5-6, Ghirongi, Dist. - Bhind, Malanpur in the State of

Madhya Pradesh. The initial order was passed on 30.5.2009 by the Assistant

Commissioner of Customs ICD, Malanpur, Dist. Bhind (M.P.).                    The

appellate order was passed by the Commissioner (Appeals)-I, Customs and

Central Excise &amp; Service Tax at Indore (M.P.).


5.     Being dissatisfied with the order passed by the revisional authority,

the petitioner has invoked the inherent jurisdiction of this Court under

 Article 226  of the Constitution of India solely on the foundation that the

revisional authority, namely, the office of the Joint Secretary to the

Government of India, is in Delhi and, therefore, this Court has the territorial

jurisdiction to deal with the lis in question. It is proponed in the petition that

it is the Joint Secretary who is answerable to justify his order and, ergo, this

Court can and should dwell upon the controversy.                In the grounds


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 5 of 34
 enumerated in the writ petition, reliance has been placed on the decision

rendered in New India Assurance Company Limited (supra).


6.     We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and Mr.Atul Nanda,

learned senior counsel as the Amicus Curiae.


7.     At this juncture, we think it apposite to refer to the history of  Article

226  of the Constitution of India. Initially,  Article 226  of the Constitution of

India read thus:


              &quot;226. (1)     Notwithstanding anything in  Article 32 ,
              every High Court shall have power, throughout the
              territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction,
              to issue to any person or authority, including in
              appropriate cases any Government, within those
              territories directions, orders or writs, including writs in
              the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition,
              quo warranto and certiorari, or any of them, for the
              enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III
              and for any other purpose.

              (2) The power conferred on a High Court by clause
              (1) shall not be in derogation of the power conferred on
              the Supreme Court by clause (2) of  Article 32.&quot; 



8.     On the basis of the aforesaid constitutional provision, a strict

construction was placed and the plea of cause of action or forum conveniens

was not given acceptance by the Apex Court in Election Commission India




W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 6 of 34
 v. Saka Venkata Rao, AIR 1953 SC 210. Their Lordships opined in the said

case as follows:


              &quot;The rule that cause of action attracts jurisdiction in
              suits is based on statutory enactment and cannot apply
              to writs issuable under  Article 226  which makes no
              reference to any cause of action or where it arises but
              insists on the presence of the person or authority
              &quot;within the territories&quot; in relation to which the High
              Court exercises jurisdiction.&quot;



9.     In Ltd. Col. Khajoor Singh v. Union of India, AIR 1961 SC 532, a

Division Bench of Jammu and Kashmir High Court had upheld the

preliminary objections raised before it and had held that it had no

jurisdiction to issue a writ against the Union of India and to arrive at the said

conclusion, the High Court had placed reliance on the decisions in Saka

Venkata Rao (supra) and K.S. Rashid and Son v. The Income Tax

Investigation Commission etc., AIR 1954 SC 207. It was contended before

the Apex Court that the aforesaid two decisions were distinguishable from

the factual matrix therein inasmuch as in the earlier cases, the Election

Commission and the Income Tax Investigation Commission were statutory

bodies which have their location in Delhi and, therefore, the view was

expressed in that manner. The majority posed two questions, namely, (i)

whether the Government of India as such can be said to have a location in a

W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 7 of 34
 particular place, that is, New Delhi, irrespective of the fact that its authority

extends over all the States and its officers function throughout India; and (ii)

whether there is any scope for introducing the concept of cause of action as

the basis for exercise of jurisdiction under  Article 226.  Their Lordships,

while dealing with the first aspect, opined thus:


               &quot;It would, therefore, in our opinion be wrong to
               introduce in  Article 226  the concept of the place where
               the order passed has effect in order to determine the
               jurisdiction of the High Court which can give relief
               under  Article 226.  The introduction of such a concept
               may give rise to confusion and conflict of jurisdiction.&quot;



10.      Thereafter, it has been held as follows:


               &quot;There can, therefore, be no escape from the conclusion
               that these words in  Article 226  refer not to the place
               where the Government may be functioning but only to
               the place where the person or authority is either resident
               or is located. So far therefore as a natural person is
               concerned, he is within those territories if he resides
               there permanently or temporarily. So far as an authority
               (other than a Government) is concerned, it is within the
               territories if its office is located there. So far as a
               Government is concerned it is within the territories only
               if its seat is within those territories.&quot;



11.      Their Lordships then answered the second question in the following

terms:


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 8 of 34
               &quot;16.  Article 226  as it stands does not refer anywhere
              to the accrual of cause of action and to the jurisdiction
              of the High Court depending on the place where the
              cause of action accrues being within its territorial
              jurisdiction. Proceedings under  Article 226  are not suits;
              they provide for extraordinary remedies by a special
              procedure and give powers of correction to the High
              Court over persons and authorities and these special
              powers have to be exercised within the limits set for
              them. These two limitations have already been indicated
              by us above and one of them is that the person or
              authority concerned must be within the territories over
              which the High Court exercises jurisdiction. Is it
              possible then to overlook this constitutional limitation
              and say that the High Court can issue a writ against a
              person or authority even though it may not be within its
              territories simply because the cause of action has arisen
              within those territories? It seems to us that it would be
              going in the face of the express provision in  Art. 226 
              and doing away with an express limitation contained
              therein if the concept of cause of action were to be
              introduced in it. Nor do we think that it is right to say
              that because  Art. 300  specifically provides for suits by
              and against the Government of India, the proceedings
              under  Art. 226  are also covered by  Art. 300.  It seems to
              us that  Art. 300  which is on the same line as  S.176  of
              the Government of India Act, 1935, dealt with suits as
              such and proceedings analogous to or consequent upon
              suits and has no reference to the extraordinary remedies
              provided by  Art. 226  of the Constitution. The concept
              of cause of action cannot in our opinion be introduced
              in  Art. 226 , for by doing so we shall be doing away with
              the express provision contained therein which requires
              that the person or authority to whom the writ is to be
              issued should be resident in or located within the
              territories over which the High Court has jurisdiction. It
              is true that this may result in some inconvenience to
              person residing far away from New Delhi who are
              aggrieved by some order of the Government of India as


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 9 of 34
               such, and that may be a reason for making a suitable
              constitutional amendment in Art. 226.&quot;



12.    After the said decision came into the field, the Parliament brought the

15th Amendment and inserted Clause (1A) in the Constitution by the 15 th

Amendment Act, 1963. Clause (1A) read as follows:


              &quot;(1A) The power conferred by clause (1) to issue
              directions, orders or writs to any Government, authority
              or person may also be exercised by any High Court
              exercising jurisdiction in relation to the territories
              within which the cause of action, wholly or in part,
              arises for the exercise of such power, notwithstanding
              that the seat of such Government or authority or the
              residence of such person is not within those territories.&quot;



13.    By the 42nd constitutional amendment, Clause (1A) was renumbered

as Clause (2) and in the present incarnation, it reads as follows:


              &quot;(2) The power conferred by clause (1) to issue
              directions, orders or writs to any Government,
              authority or person may also be exercised by any High
              Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the territories
              within which the cause of action, wholly or in part,
              arises for       the exercise       of    such     power,
              notwithstanding that the seat of such Government or
              authority or the residence of such person is not within
              those territories.&quot;


14.    From the aforesaid chronological narration of the growth of Article


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 10 of 34
 226 of the Constitution, the concept of cause of action arising wholly or in

part came into existence for the exercise of power under the said Article.


15.    Regard being had to the aforesaid historical backdrop, we shall

presently proceed to deal with the Full Bench decision in New India

Assurance Company Limited (supra) to perceive how it has dealt with the

concept of jurisdiction in the context of the conception of cause of action

and the appreciation of the ratio of various citations by the Full Bench

referred to by it. It is worth noting that the matter travelled to the Full Bench

by reference made by the Division Bench while hearing a letters patent

appeal from an order of the single Judge who had dismissed the writ petition

summarily on the ground that significant part of the cause of action could

not have been said to have arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this

Court and merely because the order under challenge had been passed by the

appellate authority located within the territorial jurisdiction, the same could

not be sufficient enough for conferment of jurisdiction. The learned single

Judge, to arrive at the said conclusion, had placed reliance on the decisions

in Ambica Industries v. Commissioner of Central Excise, 2007 (213) ELT

323(SC), Bombay Snuff (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, 2006 (194) ELT 264

(Del), Rajkumar Shivhare v. Assistant Director of Enforcement, Mumbai



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 11 of 34
 154 (2008) DLT 28 and West Coast Ingots (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of

Central Excise, New Delhi, 2007 (209) ELT 343 (Del). The Full Bench

referred to the arguments canvassed at the Bar, took note of the legislative

history of  Article 226  of the Constitution of India and referred to the

decisions of the Apex Court in Collector of Customs, Calcutta v. East India

Commercial Co. Ltd., Calcutta and others, AIR 1963 SC 1124, Kusum

Ingots &amp; Alloys Ltd. v. Union of India, (2004) 6 SCC 254, Sri Nasiruddin

v. State Transport Appellate Tribunal, (1975) 2 SCC 671 and

Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 2000 SC 2966,

the decision of the High Court of Bombay in Kishore Rungta and ors. v.

Punjab National Bank and ors., 2003 (151) ELT 502 (Bom) and the

decision of the High Court of Delhi in Indian Institute of Technology v.

P.C. Jain and Ors., 45 (1991) DLT42 and eventually held thus:


             &quot;29. As held in Nasiruddin&#x27;s case, even where part of
             the cause of action arose, it would be open to the litigant,
             who is the dominus litis to have his forum conveniens. In
             the present case, since the Appellate Authority is situated
             at New Delhi, the Delhi High Court has the jurisdiction
             under  Article 226  of the Constitution of India and,
             therefore, there was no occasion for the learned single
             Judge to apply the principle of forum conveniens to
             refuse to exercise the jurisdiction. The principle of forum
             nonconveniens originated as a principle of international
             law, concerned with Comity of Nations. A domestic
             court in which jurisdiction is vested by law otherwise


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 12 of 34
              ought not to refuse exercise of jurisdiction for the reason
             that under the same law some other courts also have
             jurisdiction. However, the remedy under  Article 226 
             being discretionary, the court may refuse to exercise
             jurisdiction when jurisdiction has been invoked mala
             fide. There is no such suggestion in the present case.
             Nothing has been urged that it is inconvenient to the
             contesting respondent to contest the writ before this
             Court. The counsel for the contesting respondent has not
             disputed the jurisdiction of this Court; his main
             contention is of possibility of conflict. We do not find
             any merit in this contention of the counsel for the
             contesting respondent. First, that is not the case in hand.
             The contesting respondent is not aggrieved by the order
             of the appellate authority and has not assailed the same
             before any High Court. Thus, there is no possibility of
             conflicting judgments or confusion in the present case.
             Secondly, even if in a given case such a situation were to
             arise, the same is bound to be brought to the notice of the
             court and the likelihood of both courts proceeding with
             the writ petition and conflicting judgments is remote. In
             such a situation, following the principle in  Section 10  of
             the Code of Civil Procedure, the subsequently filed
             petition may be stayed in view of the earlier petition
             entailing similar questions or the court may ask the
             petitioner to approach the High Court where the earlier
             petition has been filed. In our opinion, it will be
             inappropriate to refuse to exercise jurisdiction merely on
             the basis of possibility of conflict of judgments,
             particularly in view of the clear language of  Article
             226(2). 

             30.     Having held that this Court has jurisdiction, it
             cannot be said that only an insignificant or miniscule
             part of the cause of action has accrued within the
             jurisdiction of this Court or that the substantial cause of
             action has accrued within the jurisdiction of the High
             Court of Andhra Pradesh. In fact, the sole cause of action
             for the writ petition is the order of the appellate authority


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 13 of 34
              and which cause of action has accrued entirely within the
             jurisdiction of this Court and this Court would be failing
             in its duty/function if declined to entertain the writ
             petition on the ground of the contesting respondent being
             situated within the jurisdiction of the High Court of
             Andhra Pradesh. Though the petition has been filed
             under  Article 226  of the Constitution, it cannot be lost
             sight of that jurisdiction in such cases under  Article 226 
             is overlapping with  Article 227.   Article 227  is clear in
             this regard. The power of superintendence over
             Tribunals is vested in the High Court within whose
             jurisdiction the Tribunal is situated. In that light of the
             matter also, it cannot be said that only insignificant or
             miniscule part of the cause of action has accrued within
             the jurisdiction of this Court. The appellate authority in
             the present case having passed the order which is
             impugned in the petition, being situated within the
             jurisdiction of this Court, even if the cause of action
             doctrine were to be invoked, substantial part of the cause
             of action has accrued within the jurisdiction of this Court
             only. Even the language of the impugned order giving
             rise to the cause of action in the writ petition, discloses
             significant cause of action to have accrued within the
             jurisdiction of this Court. This Court while deciding this
             writ petition is not required to issue any direction, order
             or writ to any person outside its jurisdiction.  Section
             110H  of the Insurance Act provides for appeal to the
             Central Government, seat whereof is admittedly within
             the jurisdiction of this Court.

             CONCLUSION
             31.    For the foregoing reasons, we hold that where an
             order is passed by an appellate authority or a revisional
             authority, a part of cause of (sic action) arises at that
             place. When the original authority is situated at one
             place and the appellate authority is situated at another, a
             writ petition would be maintainable at both the places.
             As the order of appellate authority constitutes a part of


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 14 of 34
                cause of action, a writ petition would be maintainable in
               the High Court within whose jurisdiction it is situate
               having regard to the fact that the petitioner is dominus
               litis to choose his forum, and that since the original order
               merges into the appellate order, the place where the
               appellate authority is located is also forum conveniens.&quot;

                                                        [Emphasis added]
16.    On a nuanced scrutiny of the decision of the Full Bench, it is clear as

day that it has expressed the view which can be culled out in seriatim as

follows:

       (i)     Once the Court comes to hold that it has jurisdiction, the plea

               that only an insignificant or miniscule part of the cause of

               action has accrued within the jurisdiction of the Court or that

               the substantial cause of action has accrued in another State is

               inconsequential.

       (ii)    The &quot;sole&quot; cause of action emerges when an order by the

               appellate authority situated within the territorial jurisdiction of

               Delhi is passed and when the &quot;sole&quot; cause of action accrues

               entirely within the jurisdiction of this Court, declining to

               entertain the writ petition would amount to failure of duty of the

               Court.

       (iii)   This Court has jurisdiction under  Article 227  since it has the



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                           Page 15 of 34
               power of superintendence over tribunals situated within its

              jurisdiction and judged in that light, it cannot be said that only

              an insignificant or miniscule part of the cause of action has

              accrued within the jurisdiction of this Court.

       (iv)   Even if the doctrine of cause of action is adopted or invoked,

              the substantial part of the cause of action arises because the

              order under assail is that of the appellate authority / tribunal

              which is situated in Delhi.

       (v)    As the original order merges into the appellate order, the place

              where the appellate authority is located is also the forum

              conveniens.

       (vi)   The remedy under  Article 226  being discretionary, the Court

              may refuse to exercise jurisdiction only when jurisdiction has

              been invoked with malafide intent.


       Be it noted, the Full Bench had also observed that as the appellate

authority is situate at New Delhi, the Delhi High Court has the jurisdiction

under  Article 226  of the Constitution of India and, therefore, there was no

occasion for the learned Single Judge to apply the principle of forum

conveniens to refuse exercise of jurisdiction.



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 16 of 34
 17.    Presently, we shall proceed to advert to the authorities that have been

referred to and relied upon by the Full Bench for the simon pure reason that

understanding of the principles exposited therein would enable us to

appreciate the enunciation of the law by the Full Bench and also refer to

certain authorities that have been cited before us.


18.    In the case of Sri Nasiruddin (supra), it has been held thus:

             &quot;...the expression &quot;cause of action&quot; in an application
             under  Article 226  would be as the expression is
             understood and if the cause of action arose because of
             the appellate order or the revisional order which came to
             be passed at Lucknow then Lucknow would have
             jurisdiction though the original order was passed at a
             place outside the areas in Oudh. It may be that the
             original order was in favour of the person applying for a
             writ. In such case an adverse appellate order might be
             the cause of action. The expression &quot;cause of action&quot; is
             well-known. If the cause of action arises wholly or in
             part at a place within the specified Oudh areas, the
             Lucknow Bench will have jurisdiction. If the cause of
             action arises wholly within the specified Oudh areas, it is
             indisputable that the Lucknow Bench would have
             exclusive jurisdiction in such a matter. If the cause of
             action arises in part within the specified areas in Oudh it
             would be open to the litigant who is the dominus litis to
             have his forum conveniens. The litigant has the right to
             go to a Court where part of his cause of action arises. In
             such cases, it is incorrect to say that the litigant chooses
             any particular Court. The choice is by reason of the
             jurisdiction of the Court being attracted by part of cause
             of action arising within the jurisdiction of the Court...&quot;




W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 17 of 34
 19.    In Kishore Rungta and ors. (supra), a writ petition was filed

challenging the order passed by the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal,

Mumbai dismissing an order of the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal,

Jaipur. A preliminary objection was raised regarding the jurisdiction of the

High Court of Bombay. The Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay

referred to the decisions in East India Commercial Co. Ltd., Calcutta and

others (supra), Damomal Kausomal Raisinghani v. Union of India, AIR

1967 Bom 355, Navinchandra N. Majithia (supra) and Sita Ram Singhania

v. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. and ors, AIR 2000 SC 2180 and came to

opine thus:

              &quot;16. Mr. Tulzapurkar lastly submitted that a part of the
              cause of action having arisen in Mumbai, this Court has
              jurisdiction to entertain the Petition in view of  Article
              226(2)  of the Constitution. We are in agreement with
              Mr. Tulzapurkar. The 15th amendment to the
              Constitution which introduced clause 2 in  Article 226 
              was intended to widen the ambit of the area for reaching
              the writs issued by the High Court. Clause 2 of  Article
              226  is as under:

                      &quot;(2) The power conferred by clause (1) to issue
                      directions, orders or writs to any Government
                      authority or person may also be exercised by any
                      High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to
                      the territories within which the cause, of action,
                      wholly or in part, arises for the exercise of such
                      power, notwithstanding that the seat of such
                      Government or authority or the residence of such
                      person is not within those territories.&quot;


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 18 of 34
              In this connection Mr. Tulzapurkar relied upon the
             judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of
             Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra, The
             Supreme Court held that the power conferred on the
             High Courts under  Article 226  could as well be
             exercised by any High Court exercising Jurisdiction in
             relation to the territories within which the cause of
             action, wholly or in part arises and it is no matter that the
             seat of the Authority concerned is outside the territorial
             limits of the jurisdiction of that High Court. The
             Supreme Court further held that the amendment was
             aimed at widening the width of the area for reaching the
             writs issued by different High Courts. The Supreme
             Court also held that the words &quot;cause of action wholly or
             in part arises&quot; seem to have been lifted from  Section 20 
             of the Code of Civil Procedure, which section also deals
             with the jurisdictional aspect of the Courts.&quot;



20.    In Alchemist Ltd. and Anr. v. State Bank of Sikkim and ors., (2007)

11 SCC 335, after referring to the decisions in A.B.C. Laminart (P) Ltd. v.

A.P. Agencies, AIR 1989 SC 1239, Union of India v. Oswal Woollen Mills

Ltd., (1984) 2 SCC 646, State of Rajasthan v. Swaika Properties, AIR 1985

SC 1289, Oil and Natural Gas Commission v. Utpal Kumar Basu and

others, (1994) 4 SCC 711, CBI, Anti-Corruption Branch v. Narayan

Diwakar, (1999) 4 SCC 656, Union of India v. Adani Exports Ltd., (2002)

1 SCC 567, Kusum Ingots &amp; Alloys Ltd. (supra) and National Textile

Corpn. Ltd. v. Haribox Swalram, (2004) 9 SCC 786, the Supreme Court

expressed the view as follows:


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 19 of 34
              &quot;34. In Kusum Ingots &amp; Alloys Ltd. v. Union of India,
             (2004) 6 SCC 254 : JT (2004) Supp 1 SC 475, the
             appellant was a Company registered under the
              Companies Act  having its head office at Mumbai. It
             obtained a loan from the Bhopal Branch of the State
             Bank of India. The Bank issued a notice for repayment
             of loan from Bhopal under the  Securitisation and
             Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
             Security Interest Act, 2002 . The appellant Company
             filed a writ petition in the High Court of Delhi which
             was dismissed on the ground of lack of territorial
             jurisdiction. The Company approached this Court and
             contended that as the constitutionality of a parliamentary
             legislation was questioned, the High Court of Delhi had
             the requisite jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition.

             35.     Negativing the contention and upholding the
             order passed by the High Court, this Court ruled that
             passing of a legislation by itself does not confer any such
             right to file a writ petition in any Court unless a cause of
             action arises therefor. The Court stated: (Kusum Ingots
             case, SCC p. 261, para 20)

                      &quot;20. A distinction between a legislation and
                      executive action should be borne in mind while
                      determining the said question&quot;.
             Referring to ONGC v. Utpal Kumar Basu, (1994) 4 SCC
             711 : JT (1994) 6 SC 1, it was held that all necessary
             facts must form an &quot;integral part&quot; of the cause of action.
             The fact which is neither material nor essential nor
             integral part of the cause of action would not constitute a
             part of cause of action within the meaning of Clause (2)
             of  Article 226  of the Constitution.

             36.     In National Textile Corporation Ltd. v. Haribox
             Swalram, (2004) 9 SCC 786 : JT (2004) 4 SC 508,
             referring to earlier cases, this Court stated that: (SCC p.
             797, para 12.1)



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 20 of 34
                       &quot;12.1 ...the mere fact that the writ petitioner
                      carries on business at Calcutta or that the reply to
                      the correspondence made by it was received at
                      Calcutta is not an integral part of the cause of
                      action and, therefore, the Calcutta High Court had
                      no jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition and
                      the view to the contrary taken by the Division
                      Bench cannot be sustained.&quot;

             37.     From the aforesaid discussion and keeping in
             view the ratio laid down in a catena of decisions by this
             Court, it is clear that for the purpose of deciding whether
             facts averred by the appellant- petitioner would or would
             not constitute a part of cause of action, one has to
             consider whether such fact constitutes a material,
             essential, or integral part of the cause of action. It is no
             doubt true that even if a small fraction of the cause of
             action arises within the jurisdiction of the court, the court
             would have territorial jurisdiction to entertain the
             suit/petition. Nevertheless it must be a &quot;part of cause of
             action&quot;, nothing less than that.

             38.    In the present case, the facts which have been
             pleaded by the Appellant Company, in our judgment,
             cannot be said to be essential, integral or material facts
             so as to constitute a part of &quot;cause of action&quot; within the
             meaning of  Article 226(2)  of the Constitution. The High
             Court, in our opinion, therefore, was not wrong in
             dismissing the petition.&quot;               [Emphasis added]



21.    In Utpal Kumar Basu and others (supra), a three-Judge Bench of the

Apex Court, while dealing with the territorial jurisdiction in the backdrop of

 Article 226(2) , has opined thus:

             &quot;5.    Clause (1) of  Article 226  begins with a non-
             obstante clause-notwithstanding anything in  Article 32 - 


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 21 of 34
              and provides that every High Court shall have power
             &quot;throughout the territories in relation to which it
             exercises jurisdiction&quot;, to issue to any person or
             authority, including in appropriate cases, any
             Government, &quot;within those territories&quot; directions, orders
             or writs, for the enforcement of any of the rights
             conferred by Part III or for any other purpose. Under
             clause (2) of  Article 226  the High court may exercise its
             power conferred by clause (1) if the cause of action,
             wholly or in part, had arisen within the territory over
             which it exercises jurisdiction, notwithstanding that the
             seat of such Government or authority or the residence of
             such person is not within those territories. On a plain
             reading of the aforesaid two clauses of  Article 226  of the
             Constitution it becomes clear that a High Court can
             exercise the power to issue directions, orders or writs for
             the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights
             conferred by Part III of the Constitution or for any other
             purpose if the cause of action, wholly or in part, had
             arisen within the territories in relation to which it
             exercises jurisdiction, notwithstanding that the seat of
             the Government or authority or the residence of the
             person against whom the direction, order or writ is
             issued is not within the said territories. In order to confer
             jurisdiction on the High Court of Calcutta, NICCO must
             show that at least a part of the cause of action had arisen
             within the territorial jurisdiction of that Court. That is at
             best its case in the writ petition.
             6.     It is well settled that the expression &quot;cause of
             action&quot; means that bundle of facts which the petitioner
             must prove, if traversed, to entitle him to a judgment in
             his favour by the Court. In Chand Kour v. Partab Singh
             ILR (1889) 16 Cal 98, 102 Lord Watson said:
                      &quot;...the cause of action has no relation whatever to
                      the defence which may be set up by the
                      defendant, nor does it depend upon the character
                      of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff. It refers


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 22 of 34
                       entirely to the grounds set forth in the plaint as
                      the cause of action, or, in other words, to the
                      media upon which the plaintiff asks the Court to
                      arrive at a conclusion in his favour.&quot;

             Therefore, in determining the objection of lack of
             territorial jurisdiction the court must take all the facts
             pleaded in support of the cause of action into
             consideration albeit without embarking upon an enquiry
             as to the correctness or otherwise of the said facts. In
             other words the question whether a High Court has
             territorial jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition must be
             answered on the basis of the averments made in the
             petition, the truth or otherwise whereof being
             immaterial. To put it differently, the question of
             territorial jurisdiction must be decided on the facts
             pleaded in the petition.&quot;
                                                      [Emphasis added]

22.    In Kusum Ingots &amp; Alloys Ltd. (supra), the Apex Court posed the

question whether the seat of Parliament or the legislature of a State would be

a relevant factor for determining the territorial jurisdiction of a High Court

to entertain a writ petition under  Article 226  of the Constitution of India.

Their Lordships not only referred to clause (2) of  Article 226  of the

Constitution of India but also to the facet of cause of action as stated in

Chand Kour v. Partab Singh ILR (1887-88) 15 IA 156, Utpal Kumar Basu

and others (supra), Swaika Properties (supra), Aligarh Muslim University

v. Vinay Engg. Enterprises (P) Ltd., (1994) 4 SCC 710, Union of India v.

Adani Exports Ltd., (2002) 1 SCC 567 and Haribox Swalram (supra) and



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 23 of 34
 came to hold as follows:

             &quot;19. Passing of a legislation by itself in our opinion
             does not confer any such right to file a writ petition
             unless a cause of action arises therefor.
             20.    A distinction between a legislation and executive
             action should be borne in mind while determining the
             said question.

             21.     A parliamentary legislation when receives the
             assent of the President of India and is published in the
             Official Gazette, unless specifically excluded, will apply
             to the entire territory of India. If passing of a legislation
             gives rise to a cause of action, a writ petition questioning
             the constitutionality thereof can be filed in any High
             Court of the country. It is not so done because a cause of
             action will arise only when the provisions of the Act or
             some of them which were implemented shall give rise to
             civil or evil consequences to the petitioner. A writ court,
             it is well settled would not determine a constitutional
             question in a vacuum.

             22.     The court must have the requisite territorial
             jurisdiction. An order passed on a writ petition
             questioning the constitutionality of a parliamentary Act,
             whether interim or final, keeping in view the provisions
             contained in clause (2) of  Article 226  of the Constitution
             of India, will have effect throughout the territory of India
             subject of course to the applicability of the Act.&quot;


23.    Thereafter, in paragraphs 27 and 29, their Lordships stated thus:

             &quot;27. When an order, however, is passed by a court or
             tribunal or an executive authority whether under
             provisions of a statute or otherwise, a part of cause of
             action arises at that place. Even in a given case, when the
             original authority is constituted at one place and the


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 24 of 34
              appellate authority is constituted at another, a writ
             petition would be maintainable at both the places. In
             other words as order of the appellate authority
             constitutes a part of cause of action, a writ petition
             would be maintainable in the High Court within whose
             jurisdiction it is situate having regard to the fact that the
             order of the appellate authority is also required to be set
             aside and as the order of the original authority merges
             with that of the appellate authority.

                      X             X           X            X

             29.     In view of clause (2) of  Article 226  of the
             Constitution of India, now if a part of cause of action
             arises outside the jurisdiction of the High Court, it would
             have jurisdiction to issue a writ. The decision in Khajoor
             Singh (supra) has, thus, no application.&quot;

                                                      [Emphasis added]
24.    After so stating, in paragraph 30, their Lordships held thus:

             &quot;30. We must, however, remind ourselves that even if
             a small part of cause of action arises within the territorial
             jurisdiction of the High Court, the same by itself may not
             be considered to be a determinative factor compelling
             the High Court to decide the matter on merit. In
             appropriate cases, the Court may refuse to exercise its
             discretionary jurisdiction by invoking the doctrine of
             forum conveniens. [See Bhagat Singh Bugga v. Dewan
             Jagbir Sawhany, AIR 1941 Cal 670, Madanlal Jalan v.
             Madanlal, AIR 1949 Cal 495, Bharat Coking Coal
             Limited v. Jharia Talkies &amp; Cold Storage (P) Ltd., 1997
             CWN 122, S.S. Jain &amp; Co. v. Union of India, (1994) 1
             CHN 445 and New Horizon Ltd. v. Union of India, AIR
             1994 Del 126.&quot;

                                                    [Emphasis supplied]
25.    In Ambica Industries (supra), their Lordships have expressed thus:


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 25 of 34
              &quot;40. Although in view of  Section 141  of the Code of
             Civil Procedure the provisions thereof would not apply
             to writ proceedings, the phraseology used in  Section
             20(c)  of the Code of Civil Procedure and clause (2) of
              Article 226 , being in pari materia, the decisions of this
             Court rendered on interpretation of  Section 20(c)  CPC
             shall apply to the writ proceedings also. Before
             proceeding to discuss the matter further it may be
             pointed out that the entire bundle of facts pleaded need
             not constitute a cause of action, as what is necessary to
             be proved, before the petitioner can obtain a decree, is
             material facts. The expression material facts is also
             known as integral facts.
             41.    Keeping in view the expression &quot;cause of action&quot;
             used in Clause (2) of  Article 226  of the Constitution of
             India, indisputably even if a small fraction thereof
             accrues within the jurisdiction of the Court, the Court
             will have jurisdiction in the matter though the doctrine of
             forum conveniens may also have to be considered.&quot;
                                                     [Emphasis added]

26.    At this juncture, we may profitably refer to the decision in Adani

Exports Ltd. (supra) wherein their Lordships, after referring to the decision

in Utpal Kumar Basu and others (supra), have held thus:


             &quot;17. It is seen from the above that in order to confer
             jurisdiction on a High Court to entertain a writ petition
             or a special civil application as in this case, the High
             Court must be satisfied from the entire facts pleaded in
             support of the cause of action that those facts do
             constitute a cause so as to empower to court to decide a
             dispute which has, at least in part, arisen within its
             jurisdiction. It is clear from the above judgment that each
             and every fact pleaded by the respondents in their
             application does not ipso facto lead to the conclusion


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 26 of 34
              that those facts give rise to a cause of action within the
             court&#x27;s territorial jurisdiction unless those facts pleaded
             are such which have a nexus or relevance with the lis
             that is involved in the case. Facts which have no bearing
             with the lis or the dispute involved in the case, do not
             give rise to a cause of action so as to confer territorial
             jurisdiction on the court concerned. If we apply this
             principle then we see that none of the facts pleaded in
             Paragraph 16 of the petition, in our opinion, fall into the
             category of bundle of facts which would constitute a
             cause of action giving rise to a dispute which could
             confer territorial jurisdiction on the courts at
             Ahmedabad.&quot;
27.    In Rajendran Chingaravelu v. R.K. Mishra, (2010) 1 SCC 457, the

appellant, a Computer Engineer, with the intention to buy a property at

Chennai, identified a prospective seller at Chennai and proceeded from

Hyderabad with a large sum of money to Chennai and when his baggage was

checked at the Hyderabad airport by the security personnel, he was allowed

to leave Hyderabad. However, at Chennai, some officers of the Income Tax

Investigation Wing rushed in and he was pulled out of the aircraft and taken

to the office on the first floor of the airport. He was questioned there about

the money he was carrying. After certain enquiry and investigation, as

nothing was found to be amiss or irregular, the seized money was returned to

him, but without any interest.           Being aggrieved by the action of the

department, he filed a writ petition in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh

seeking certain reliefs. The High Court of Andhra Pradesh declined to


W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 27 of 34
 interfere and directed the appellant therein to approach the appropriate court

at Chennai. The said order was the subject matter of appeal by special leave

before the Apex Court. In that context, their Lordships have held thus:


             &quot;9. The first question that arises for consideration is
             whether the Andhra Pradesh High Court was justified in
             holding that as the seizure took place at Chennai (Tamil
             Nadu), the appellant could not maintain the writ petition
             before it. The High Court did not examine whether any
             part of cause of action arose in Andhra Pradesh. Clause
             (2) of  Article 226  makes it clear that the High Court
             exercising jurisdiction in relation to the territories within
             which the cause of action arises wholly or in part, will
             have jurisdiction. This would mean that even if a small
             fraction of the cause of action (that bundle of facts which
             gives a petitioner, a right to sue) accrued within the
             territories of Andhra Pradesh, the High Court of that
             State will have jurisdiction.

             10. In this case, the genesis for the entire episode of
             search, seizure and detention was the action of the
             security/intelligence officials at Hyderabad Airport (in
             Andhra Pradesh) who having inspected the cash carried
             by him, alerted their counterparts at Chennai Airport that
             the appellant was carrying a huge sum of money, and
             required to be intercepted and questioned. A part of the
             cause of action therefore clearly arose in Hyderabad. It is
             also to be noticed that the consequential income tax
             proceedings against him, which he challenged in the writ
             petition, were also initiated at Hyderabad. Therefore, his
             writ petition ought not to have been rejected on the
             ground of want of jurisdiction.&quot;
                                                  [Underlining is by us]

28.    On a scrutiny of the aforesaid emphasized lines, it is vivid that their

Lordships have opined that a part of the cause of action arose at Hyderabad

W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                          Page 28 of 34
 as the officers at Hyderabad had alerted their counterparts at Chennai airport

and further consequential income tax proceedings were also initiated at

Hyderabad. In our humble view, the concept of cause of action which has

been referred to in the said decision falls within the concept of cause of

action as explained and elucidated in Alchemist Ltd. (supra).


29.    In Mosaraf Hossain Khan v. Bhagheeratha Engg. Ltd. &amp; Ors.,

(2006) 3 SCC 658, the Apex Court referred to the decision in Kusum Ingots

&amp; Alloys Ltd. (supra) and observed as follows:


             &quot;26 ...with a view to determine the jurisdiction of one
             High Court vis-à-vis the other the facts pleaded in the
             writ petition must have a nexus on the basis whereof a
             prayer can be made and the facts which have nothing to
             do therewith cannot give rise to a cause of action to
             invoke the jurisdiction of a court. In that case it was
             clearly held that only because the High Court within
             whose jurisdiction a legislation is passed, it would not
             have the sole territorial jurisdiction but all the High
             Courts where cause of action arises, will have
             jurisdiction...&quot;

       Thereafter, their Lordships reproduced paragraphs 27 and 28 of the

said decision and a passage from Adani Exports Ltd. (supra) and proceeded

to state as follows:

             &quot;28. We have referred to the scope of jurisdiction
             under  Articles 226  and  227  of the Constitution only to
             highlight that the High Courts should not ordinarily
             interfere with an order taking cognisance passed by a

W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                       Page 29 of 34
              competent court of law except in a proper case.
             Furthermore only such High Court within whose
             jurisdiction the order of the subordinate court has been
             passed, would have the jurisdiction to entertain an
             application under  Article 227  of the Constitution unless
             it is established that the earlier cause of action arose
             within the jurisdiction thereof.
             29.     The High Courts, however, must remind
             themselves about the doctrine of forum non conveniens
             also. [See Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. v. Owners &amp; Parties,
             Vessel M.V. Fortune Express, (2006) 3 SCC 100: (2006)
             2 Scale 30]&quot;                       [Underlining is by us]

30.    From the aforesaid pronouncements, the concept of forum conveniens

gains signification. In Black&#x27;s Law Dictionary, forum conveniens has been

defined as follows:

             &quot;The court in which an action is most appropriately
             brought, considering the best interests and convenience
             of the parties and witnesses.&quot;

31.    The concept of forum conveniens fundamentally means that it is

obligatory on the part of the court to see the convenience of all the parties

before it.    The convenience in its ambit and sweep would include the

existence of more appropriate forum, expenses involved, the law relating to

the lis, verification of certain facts which are necessitous for just

adjudication of the controversy and such other ancillary aspects.         The

balance of convenience is also to be taken note of. Be it noted, the Apex

Court has clearly stated in the cases of Kusum Ingots (supra), Mosaraf



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                      Page 30 of 34
 Hossain Khan (supra) and Ambica Industries (supra) about the applicability

of the doctrine of forum conveniens while opining that arising of a part of

cause of action would entitle the High Court to entertain the writ petition as

maintainable.


32.    The principle of forum conveniens in its ambit and sweep

encapsulates the concept that a cause of action arising within the jurisdiction

of the Court would not itself constitute to be the determining factor

compelling the Court to entertain the matter. While exercising jurisdiction

under  Articles 226  and  227  of the Constitution of India, the Court cannot be

totally oblivious of the concept of forum conveniens. The Full Bench in

New India Assurance Co. Ltd. (supra) has not kept in view the concept of

forum conveniens and has expressed the view that if the appellate authority

who has passed the order is situated in Delhi, then the Delhi High Court

should be treated as the forum conveniens. We are unable to subscribe to

the said view.

33.    In view of the aforesaid analysis, we are inclined to modify the

findings and conclusions of the Full Bench in New India Assurance

Company Limited (supra) and proceed to state our conclusions in seriatim as

follows:



W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 31 of 34
 (a)    The finding recorded by the Full Bench that the sole cause of action

       emerges at the place or location where the tribunal/appellate

       authority/revisional authority is situate and the said High Court (i.e.,

       Delhi High Court) cannot decline to entertain the writ petition as that

       would amount to failure of the duty of the Court cannot be accepted

       inasmuch as such a finding is totally based on the situs of the

       tribunal/appellate authority/revisional authority totally ignoring the

       concept of forum conveniens.

(b)    Even if a miniscule part of cause of action arises within the

       jurisdiction of this court, a writ petition would be maintainable before

       this Court, however, the cause of action has to be understood as per

       the ratio laid down in the case of Alchemist Ltd. (supra).

(c)    An order of the appellate authority constitutes a part of cause of action

       to make the writ petition maintainable in the High Court within whose

       jurisdiction the appellate authority is situated. Yet, the same may not

       be the singular factor to compel the High Court to decide the matter

       on merits. The High Court may refuse to exercise its discretionary

       jurisdiction by invoking the doctrine of forum conveniens.




W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                         Page 32 of 34
 (d)    The conclusion that where the appellate or revisional authority is

       located constitutes the place of forum conveniens as stated in absolute

       terms by the Full Bench is not correct as it will vary from case to case

       and depend upon the lis in question.

(e)    The finding that the court may refuse to exercise jurisdiction under

        Article 226  if only the jurisdiction is invoked in a malafide manner is

       too restricted / constricted as the exercise of power under  Article 226 

       being discretionary cannot be limited or restricted to the ground of

       malafide alone.

(f)    While entertaining a writ petition, the doctrine of forum conveniens

       and the nature of cause of action are required to be scrutinized by the

       High Court depending upon the factual matrix of each case in view of

       what has been stated in Ambica Industries (supra) and Adani Exports

       Ltd. (supra).

(g)    The conclusion of the earlier decision of the Full Bench in New India

       Assurance Company Limited (supra) &quot;that since the original order

       merges into the appellate order, the place where the appellate

       authority is located is also forum conveniens&quot; is not correct.




W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                        Page 33 of 34
 (h)    Any decision of this Court contrary to the conclusions enumerated

       hereinabove stands overruled.


34.    Ex consequenti, we answer the reference by partially overruling and

clarifying the decision in New India Assurance Company Limited (supra) in

the above terms. Matters be listed before the appropriate Division Bench for

appropriate consideration.

                                                  CHIEF JUSTICE



                                                  VIKRAMAJIT SEN, J.
 


                                                   A.K. SIKRI, J.
 


                                                   SANJIV KHANNA, J.
 


                                                   MANMOHAN, J.
AUGUST 1, 2011
dk




 W.P.(C) No.6570/2010 with connected matters                     Page 34 of 34 
  