 Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited vs Girnar Corrugators Pvt. Ltd. on 5 January, 2023 

 Author:  M.R. Shah  

 Bench:  Krishna Murari ,  M.R. Shah  

                                                                       REPORTABLE


                                     IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                      CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION


                                      CIVIL APPEAL NO.6662 OF 2022


                         KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED                   …Appellant


                                                    Versus


                         Girnar Corrugators Pvt. Ltd. &amp; Ors.          …Respondents



                                                  JUDGMENT
 

                          M.R. SHAH, J.
 
 
                           1.   Feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned

                         judgment and order passed by the Division Bench of the High

                         Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore dated 11.08.2017 in Writ

                         Appeal No. 248 of 2017, by which the Division Bench of the

                         High Court has allowed the said appeal preferred by

                         respondent No.1 herein and has quashed and set aside the
 Signature Not Verified 

 Digitally signed by 
 Neetu Sachdeva 
 Date: 2023.01.05 
                         judgment and order passed by the learned Single Judge and
 16:39:17 IST 
 Reason: 




                                                        1 
has observed and held that  Micro, Small and Medium

Enterprises Development Act, 2006  (hereinafter referred to as

&#x27; MSMED       Act &#x27;)     will    prevail    over     Securitisation        and

Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of

Security    Interest    Act,   2002       (hereinafter   referred   to    as

&#x27; SARFAESI Act &#x27;), the secured creditor – Kotak Mahindra Bank

Limited has preferred the present appeal.


        The facts leading to the present appeal, in nut shell, are

as under:
 
 
  1.1   One Mission Vivacare (hereinafter referred to as &#x27;debtor&#x27;)

advanced various credit facilities by the appellant bank –

secured creditor. In order to secure the various credit facilities,

Plot Nos. 16 and 14, situated in SEZ Area of Dhar were

mortgaged along with certain movable fixed assets.


1.2   On account of default in payment of loan / debt, the

bank-initiated recovery proceedings in respect of the secured

assets contemplated under  Section 13(2)  of the SARFAESI Act.

  The bank – secured creditor filed an application before the

District Magistrate on 17.06.2014 under  Section 14  of the
                                     2 
 SARFAESI Act  seeking assistance from taking possession of

the secured assets. By order dated 24.09.2014, the District

Magistrate allowed the said application by directing the SDM,

District: Dhar to take vacant possession of the secured assets.

However, no action was taken and therefore, the bank

submitted applications to the District Magistrate and the SDM

complaining non-compliance of the order to take possession of

the secured assets. Finally, SDM issued direction to the Naib

Tehsildar vide communication dated 07.11.2015 to comply the

order of the District Magistrate and obtain the possession by

taking   police   assistance.   Thereafter   vide   order   dated

21.03.2016, Naib Tehsildar refused to take possession and to

comply the order dated 24.09.2014 on the ground that one

recovery proceeding is pending for recovery of certain amounts

from the secured assets and on the ground that the recovery

certificate issued in favour of respondent No.1 (original

respondent No.4 before the High Court) was already pending

for recovery of certain amounts from the aforesaid two secured

assets. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the

recovery certificates were issued in favour of respondent No.1

                                 3 
pursuant to the award passed by the Facilitation Council on

11.09.2014 which was in favour of respondent No.1 herein,

which was under provisions of  MSMED Act . The order passed

by the Naib Tehsildar refusing to take possession of the

secured assets pursuant to the order passed by the District

Magistrate dated 24.09.2014 was the subject matter of writ

petition before the learned Single Judge of the High Court by

way of Writ Petition No.2569 of 2016. While refusing to take

possession of the secured assets pursuant to the order passed

by the District Magistrate under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI

Act, Naib Tehsildar observed that  MSMED Act  being a special

enactment enacted subsequent to  SARFAESI Act  would have

overriding effect and therefore,  MSMED Act  would prevail over

the  SARFAESI Act .
 
 
1.3   The learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition

preferred by the bank – secured creditor and set aside the

order passed by the Naib Tehsildar by observing that the

provisions of  SARFAESI Act  would prevail and if respondent

No.1 is aggrieved by the order passed by the District

Magistrate under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act or the
                              4 
measures taken under  Section 13(4)  of the SARFAESI Act, he

may prefer an appeal/application under  Section 17  of the

SARFAESI Act before the Debts Recovery Tribunal.


1.4   Feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment

and order passed by the learned Single Judge holding that the

 SARFAESI Act  would prevail, respondent No.1 herein in whose

favour there was an award under provisions of the  MSMED

Act  and in whose favour the recovery certificates were issued,

filed the present writ appeal before the Division Bench of the

High Court. By the impugned judgment and order, the

Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the said appeal

and has set aside the judgment and order passed by the

learned Single Judge and has observed and held that  MSMED

Act  being the later enactment, the same shall prevail over the

 SARFAESI Act .
 
 
1.5   The impugned judgment and order passed by the

Division Bench of the High Court holding that  MSMED Act 

being later enactment, the same would prevail over the




                               5 
 SARFAESI Act  the bank – secured creditor has preferred the

present appeal.
 
 
  2.   Shri Amar Dave, learned counsel appearing for the

appellant bank – secured creditor has vehemently submitted

that as such, there is no repugnancy between the provisions of

SARFAESI Act and MSMED Act. It is submitted that non-

obstante clause in the  MSMED Act , i.e.  Section 24  provides

that provisions under  Sections 15  to  23  shall have effect

notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in

any other law for the time being in force. It is submitted that

 Sections 15  to  23  of the MSMED Act only provide for special

mechanism for adjudication of the dispute along           with

enforcing certain other contractual and business terms on the

parties such as time limit for payments and interest in case of

delayed payments. It is submitted that the perusal of the said

scheme, from  Sections 15  to  23  of the MSMED Act, clearly

shows that there is no express &#x27;priority&#x27; envisaged for

payments under the  MSMED Act  over the dues of secured

creditors or over any taxes or cesses payable to Central

Government or State Government or Local Authority as the
                               6 
case may be. It is submitted that no provision to this effect is

consciously provided. It is submitted that in sharp contrast to

this, the perusal of the scheme of  SARFAESI Act , including in

 Section 26E , thereof leaves no room for doubt that the

legislature has expressly and unambiguously provided for a

legal framework exclusively on the issue of &#x27;priority&#x27; of

payment of dues. It is submitted that in case of certain other

legislations, there is express provision for the manner in which

the dues thereunder may either have a charge over the

property or have &#x27;priority&#x27; over other dues. Reference is made

to the provisions of the  Maharashtra Value Added Tax Act,

2002 ;    Employees&#x27;    Provident    Fund    and   Miscellaneous

Provisions Act, 1952 ;  Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963 ;

 Workmen&#x27;s Compensation Act, 1923 ;  Central Excise Act,

1944 ; Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery Debts

Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016,

etc. It is submitted that in the absence of such express

provisions, there can be no basis to ignore the specific scheme

of the  SARFAESI Act  in comparison to such specific scheme

under the  MSMED Act  with regard to &#x27;priority&#x27; of payments. It

                                7 
is submitted that any such &#x27;priority&#x27; over and above the dues

of secured creditors or government dues has to be expressly

and unambiguously provided for and cannot be read by

implication. It is submitted that viewed from this angle, in

fact, there is no conflict between the two schemes, i.e. MSMED

Act and SARFAESI Act as far as the specific subject of &#x27;priority&#x27;

is concerned.
 
 
           2.1     It is further submitted that  Section 26E  of the

        SARFAESI     Act   being   subsequently   inserted   vide

        amendment in 2016, the non-obstante clause in

         Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act shall prevail over the

        provisions of  MSMED Act . Reliance is placed on the

        decision of this Court in case of  Bank of India vs.

        Ketan Praekh &amp; Ors.  [(2008) 8 SCC 148 (para 28)].


        2.2     Making above submissions, it is prayed to

        allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the

        impugned judgment and order passed by the Division

        Bench and restore the judgment and order passed by

        the learned Single Judge by holding that the recoveries

                                8 
       under  SARFAESI Act  shall be accorded priority over

       recoveries under  MSMED Act . 
 
 
  3.   The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri

Niranjan   Reddy,   learned     Senior   Counsel    appearing     for

respondent No.1.
 
 
         3.1     Learned counsel appearing for respondent

       No.1 has vehemently submitted that  MSMED Act  has

       been enacted to promote and protect the interests of

       the small and medium scale enterprises which is a

       source of livelihood for several citizens and contributes

       towards 27% to the GDP. It is submitted that

       therefore, aggressive provisions were brought in for the

       recovery of dues and compound interests are given in

        MSMED Act  which is not present in any other

       legislations and is in the nature of a beneficial

       legislation. It is submitted that therefore, in view of

        Section 24  of the MSMED Act which provides for an

       overriding   effect    over   other   prevailing   laws,   the

       provisions with respect to recoveries under MSMED

                                  9 
Act shall prevail over the recoveries under  SARFAESI

Act .
 
 
3.2     It is submitted that the financial institutions

have various other means of recovery including

 SARFAESI Act , IBC etc. as being a secured creditor to

an extent of also taking personal guarantee from the

Directors of the company in certain cases. However,

such liberty of taking personal guarantees etc. are not

available to MSME and they completely rely on

 MSMED Act  for recovery of dues and as such have

only one method of recovery by virtue of the award

which is in the nature of a decree from the Facilitation

Council. It is submitted that in the above said context,

an overriding provision is provided under  Section 24  of

the MSMED Act.
 
 
3.3     It is submitted that  Section 24  of the MSMED

Act provides for an overriding effect over other

prevailing laws. It is submitted that the provisions of

 Sections 15  to  23  of the MSMED Act shall have effect

                       10 
notwithstanding    anything     inconsistent    therewith

contained in any other law for the time being in force.

It is submitted that the entire scheme of provisions

under Chapter V –  Sections 15  to  23  which includes

delayed payments, recovery of amounts due, and

establishment of Facilitation Council and its award

has an overriding effect on all other legislations

including    SARFAESI     Act .   It   is   submitted   that

therefore, an award from the Facilitation Council will

also have an overriding effect by virtue of  Section 24 .

It is submitted that the intention of the legislature is

clear as the overriding provision is for a particular set

of delayed payments recovery mechanism provided

under  MSMED Act  which is also in consonance with

object and purpose of the  MSMED Act .
 
 
3.4     It is further submitted that  MSMED Act  is a

subsequent legislation and by providing  Section 24  of

the MSMED Act, the legislature has purposefully and

knowingly superseded all the recovery procedures

prevailing at that relevant point of time, by its non-
                        11 
obstante clause. It is submitted that if any contrary

interpretation is to be given to the said position of law,

then the same would make  Section 24  redundant,

which by all means is not the intention of the

legislature. It is submitted that if  SARFAESI Act  is

given overriding effect over the  MSMED Act , then it

would render awards of the Facilitation Council as

non-executable in all cases where there is a secured

creditor. It is submitted that the same would severely

affect the existence and growth of the MSME and is

also against object of the  MSMED Act .
 
 
3.5     It is submitted that as per the law  laid down

by  this Court in catena of decisions, if two enactments

have competing non-obstante provision and nothing

repugnant, then the non-obstante clause of the

subsequent statute would prevail over the earlier

enactments. It is submitted that the principle therefore

would be that the court must look into the objectives

of the two Special Acts. It is submitted that if the

legislature still confers the later enactment with a non-
                        12 
obstante clause, it means the legislature wanted the

enactment to prevail. It is submitted that therefore,

non-obstante clause in  MSMED Act , i.e.  Section 24 

would   prevail   over   the    recovery   mechanism    of

 SARFAESI Act , being enacted later in point of time,

overriding all other laws being in force at that point of

time.
 
 
3.6     It is submitted that the State Madhya Pradesh

in exercise of powers conferred under  Section 30  read

with sub-section (3) of  Section 21  of the MSMED Act

made the Rules known as &#x27;M.P. Micro and Small

Enterprises Facilitation       Council Rules, 2006&#x27;    for

procedure to be followed for recovery of amounts due.

It is submitted that under the said Rules, the decree,

award or order passed under provisions of  MSMED Act 

shall be executed by the Collector of the District

concerned and the amount due shall be recovered as

arrears of land revenue. It is submitted that as per

Section 137 of Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code,

1959, land revenue would have first charge on the
                          13 
proceeds of the recovery of dues from the subject

property. It is submitted that  SARFAESI Act  does not

provide that it will have precedence over a decree /

award of the decree holder.
 
 
3.7     It is submitted that Section 240A of the IBC,

2016 provides exception of certain provisions of

Section 29A of the IBC to MSME. It is submitted that

it is a settled law that IBC, 2016 would override

 SARFAESI Act  and therefore, in the said context also,

 MSMED Act  may have precedence over  SARFAESI Act .


3.8     It is further submitted that  MSMED Act  is an

extension of the welfare policy of the State and may

need to be considered in order to balance the larger

public interest of the small and medium scale

enterprises and their means of existence.          It is

submitted that therefore, to strike the balance of

interest for survival of small and medium scale

enterprises, it is prayed to interpret the provisions in

favour of the small and medium scale enterprises and

                       14 
        to hold that the recoveries under  MSMED Act  would

        prevail over the recoveries under  SARFAESI Act .


        3.9       Making above submissions, it is prayed to

        dismiss the present appeal.
 
 
  4.   Heard learned counsel appearing for the respective

parties at length.
 
 
  5.   The short question which is posed for the consideration

of this Court is whether the  MSMED Act  would prevail over the

 SARFAESI       Act ?    The    question       is   whether    recovery

proceedings / recoveries under the  MSMED Act  would prevail

over the recoveries made / recovery proceedings under

provisions of the  SARFAESI Act ?
 
 
  6.   It is the case on behalf of respondent No.1 that in view of

 Section 24  of the MSMED Act which provides that the

provisions of  Sections 15  to  23  of the MSMED Act would have

overriding    effect   and   shall    have   effect   notwithstanding

anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for

the time being in force and in view of the fact that the MSMED

                                      15 
Act being a later enactment, then the SARFAESI Act, the

MSMED Act would prevail over the  SARFAESI Act .


  7.   While appreciating the above submissions, it is required

to be appreciated that  Sections 15  to  23  of the MSMED Act

only provide for special mechanism for adjudication of the

dispute along with enforcing certain other contractual and

business terms on the parties such as time limit for payments

and interest in case of delayed payments. In the entire

 MSMED Act , there is no specific express provision giving

&#x27;priority&#x27; for payments under the  MSMED Act  over the dues of

the secured creditors or over any taxes or cesses payable to

Central Government or State Government or Local Authority

as the case may be. In sharp contrast to this,  Section 26E  of

the SARFAESI Act which has been inserted vide Amendment

in   2016,   it   provides   that   notwithstanding    anything

inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time

being in force, after the registration of security interest, the

debts due to any secured creditor shall be paid in ‘priority’

over all other debts and all revenue taxes and cesses and other

rates payable to the Central Government or State Government
                               16 
or Local Authority. However, the priority to secured creditors

in payment of debt as per  Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act

shall be subject to the provisions of the IBC. Therefore, such

dues vis-a-vis dues under the  MSMED Act , as per the decree

or order passed by the Facilitation Council debts due to the

secured creditor shall have a priority in view of  Section 26E  of

the SARFAESI Act which is later enactment in point of time

than the  MSMED Act . At this stage, it is required to be noted

 Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act which is inserted in 2016 is

also   having   a   non-obstante     clause.   Even      as   per   the

submission on behalf of respondent No.1, two enactments

have    competing       non-obstante    provision     and     nothing

repugnant, then the non-obstante clause of the subsequent

statute would prevail over the earlier enactments. As per the

settle position of law, if the legislature confers the later

enactment   with    a    non-obstante    clause,    it   means      the

legislature wanted the subsequent / later enactment to

prevail. Thus, a ‘priority’ conferred / provided under  Section

26E  of the SARFAESI Act would prevail over the recovery

mechanism of the  MSMED Act . The aforesaid is to be

                                 17 
considered along with the fact that under provisions of the

 MSMED Act , more particularly  Sections 15  to  23 , no &#x27;priority&#x27;

is provided with respect to the dues under the  MSMED Act ,

like  Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act.
 
 8.   As observed hereinabove,  Sections 15  to  23  of the

MSMED     Act   are   providing    a   special   mechanism   for

adjudication of the disputes and to adjudicate and resolve the

disputes between the supplier and buyer – micro or small

enterprise. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that  MSMED

Act  does not provide any priority over the debt dues of the

secured creditor akin to  Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act. At

the most, the decree / order / award passed by the

Facilitation Council shall be executed as such and the micro

or small enterprise in whose favour the award or decree has

been passed by the Facilitation Council shall be entitled to

execute the same like other debts / creditors. Therefore,

considering the provisions of  Sections 15  to  23  read with

 Section 24  of the MSMED Act and the provisions of the

 SARFAESI Act , as such, there is no repugnancy between two

enactments viz. SARFAESI Act and MSMED Act. As such,

                               18 
there is no conflict between two schemes, i.e. MSMED Act and

SARFAESI Act as far as the specific subject of &#x27;priority&#x27; is

concerned.
 
 
  9.   At this stage, the object and purpose of the enactment of

 SARFAESI Act  is required to be considered.  SARFAESI Act  has

been enacted to regulate securitization and reconstruction of

financial assets and enforcement of security interest and to

provide for a central debts of security interest created on

property rights, and for matters connected therewith or

incidental thereto. Therefore, SARFAESI Act has been enacted

providing specific mechanism / provision for the financial

assets and security interest. It is a special legislation for

enforcement of security interest which is created in favour of

the secured creditor – financial institution. Therefore, in

absence of any specific provision for priority of the dues under

 MSMED Act , if the submission on behalf of respondent No.1

for the dues under  MSMED Act  would prevail over the

 SARFAESI Act , then  in that case , not only the object and

purpose of special enactment /  SARFAESI Act  would be

frustrated, even the later enactment by way of insertion of
                               19 
 Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act would be frustrated. If the

submission on behalf of respondent No.1 is accepted, then  in

that case ,  Section 26E  of the SARFAESI Act would become

nugatory and would become otiose and/or redundant. Any

other contrary view would be defeating the provision of  Section

26E  of the SARFAESI Act and also the object and purpose of

the  SARFAESI Act .
 
 
  10.   Even otherwise the Naib Tehsildar was not at all justified

in not taking possession of the secured assets / properties as

per order dated 24.09.2014 passed by the District Magistrate

under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act. The order passed by

the Naib Tehsildar refusing to take possession of the secured

assets / properties despite the order passed under  Section 14 

of the SARFAESI Act on the ground that recovery certificates

issued by respondent No.1 for recovery of the orders passed by

the Facilitation Council are pending, is wholly without

jurisdiction. While exercising power under  Section 14  of the

SARFAESI Act, even the District Magistrate has no jurisdiction

and/or District Magistrate and/or even the Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute
                                20 
between secured creditor and debtor. Under  Section 14  of the

SARFAESI       Act,    the    District   Magistrate   or   the   Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate as the case may be is required to

assist the secured creditor in getting the possession of the

secured assets. Under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, neither

District Magistrate nor Metropolitan Magistrate would have

any jurisdiction to adjudicate and/or decide the dispute even

between the secured creditor and the debtor. If any person is

aggrieved by the steps under  Section 13(4)  / order passed

under  Section 14 , then the aggrieved person has to approach

the Debts Recovery Tribunal by way of appeal / application

under  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act. Therefore, the order

passed by the Naib Tehsildar refusing to take the possession

pursuant to the order passed by the District Magistrate under

 Section   14     of    the    SARFAESI    Act   was    wholly   without

jurisdiction and therefore also the same was liable to be set

aside.
 
 
  11.   In view of the above and further reasons stated above,

the impugned judgment and order passed by the Division

Bench of the High Court is unsustainable and the same
                                    21 
deserves to be quashed and set aside. Consequently, the

present appeal is allowed. The impugned judgment and order

dated 11.08.2017 passed by the Division Bench of the High

Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore in Writ Appeal No. 268 of

2017 is set aside and the judgment and order passed by the

learned Single Judge is hereby restored. It is observed and

held that so far as recoveries under the  SARFAESI Act  with

respect to the secured assets would prevail over the recoveries

under the  MSMED Act  to recover the amount under the award

/ decree passed by the Facilitation Council. It is rightly

observed by the learned Single Judge that if respondent No.1

is aggrieved by the order passed by the District Magistrate

under  Section 14  of the SARFAESI Act, it will be open for him

to initiate proceedings under  Section 17  of the SARFAESI Act

which be considered in accordance with law and on its merits

and subject to the provisions of  Section 17  and the provisions

of the  SARFAESI Act .
 
 
  12.   The present appeal is accordingly allowed. No order as to

costs.
 
 
                               22 
                        ………………………………….J.
                                [M.R. SHAH]


                        ………………………………….J.
                            [KRISHNA MURARI]
NEW DELHI;
  JANUARY 5, 2023.
 
 


                    23 
 