 State Bank Of India vs V. Ramakrishnan on 14 August, 2018 

 Equivalent citations: AIR 2018 SUPREME COURT 3876, 2018 (6) ABR 42, 2019 (1) ADR 661, (2018) 191 ALLINDCAS 239 (SC), (2018) 191 ALLINDCAS 239, (2018) 2 WLC(SC)CVL 463, (2018) 3 BANKCAS 593, (2018) 4 MPLJ 23, (2018) 4 RECCIVR 110, (2018) 5 ANDHLD 162, (2018) 5 MAH LJ 692, (2018) 6 BOM CR 47, (2018) 9 SCALE 597, 2019 (134) ALR SOC 23 (SC), (2019) 1 CLR 245 (SC), AIR 2018 SC (CIV) 2721, AIRONLINE 2018 SC 113 

 Author:  R.F. Nariman  

 Bench:  Indu Malhotra ,  R.F. Nariman  

                                                                             REPORTABLE


                                          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

                                            CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                                            CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3595 OF 2018


                         STATE BANK OF INDIA                             … APPELLANT

                                                        VERSUS

                         V. RAMAKRISHNAN &amp; ANR.                          … RESPONDENTS

                                                           WITH

                                            CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4553 OF 2018


                                                      JUDGMENT
 
                          R.F. NARIMAN, J.
 
 
                           1.        The present appeals revolve around whether Section 14 of the

                         Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, which provides for a moratorium

                         for the limited period mentioned in the Code, on admission of an

                         insolvency petition, would apply to a personal guarantor of a corporate

                         debtor.
  Signature Not Verified  

 Digitally signed by R 
 NATARAJAN 
 Date: 2018.08.14 
 15:16:20 IST 
 Reason: 
                           2.    The factual backdrop of the present appeals is that the

                         Respondent No.1 is the Managing Director of the corporate debtor,
                                                                                                1 
namely, the Respondent No.2 Company, and also the personal guarantor

in respect of credit facilities that had been availed from the Appellant.

The Guarantee Agreement entered into between the Appellant and the

Respondent No.1 is dated 22.02.2014.
 
 
  3.    As the Respondent No.2 Company did not pay its debts in time,

the account of Respondent No.2 was classified as a non-performing

asset on 26.07.2015. Consequent thereto, the Appellant issued a notice

dated 04.08.2015 under  Section 13(2)  of the SARFAESI Act demanding

an outstanding amount of Rs.61,13,28,785.48 from the Respondents

within the statutory period of 60 days. As no payment was forthcoming, a

possession notice under  Section 13(4)  of the SARFAESI Act was issued

on 18.11.2016.
 
 
  4.    As matters stood thus, an application was filed by Respondent

No.2, the corporate debtor, under  Section 10  of the Code on 20.05.2017

to initiate the corporate insolvency resolution process against itself. On

19.06.2017, this petition filed under  Section 10  was admitted, followed by

the moratorium that is imposed statutorily by  Section 14  of the Code.

While the said proceedings were pending, an interim application was

filed by Respondent No.1 as personal guarantor to the corporate debtor,


                                                                          2 
in which Respondent No.1 took up the plea that  Section 14  of the Code

would apply to the personal guarantor as well, as a result of which

proceedings against the personal guarantor and his property would have

to be stayed. The National Company Law Tribunal, by its order dated

18.09.2017, held that since under  Section 31  of the Code, a Resolution

Plan made thereunder would bind the personal guarantor as well, and

since, after the creditor is proceeded against, the guarantor stands in the

shoes of the creditor,  Section 14  would apply in favour of the personal

guarantor as well. The interim application filed by Respondent No.1 was

thus allowed, and the Appellant was restrained from moving against

Respondent No.1.
 
 
  5.     An appeal filed to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal

resulted in the appeal being dismissed. By the impugned judgment dated

28.02.2018, the Appellate Tribunal relied upon Section 60(2) and (3) of

the Code as well as  Section 31  of the Code to find that the moratorium

imposed under  Section 14  would apply also to the personal guarantor.

The reasoning was that since the personal guarantor can also be

proceeded against, and forms part of a Resolution Plan which is binding

on him, he is very much part of the insolvency process against the


                                                                           3 
     corporate debtor, and that, therefore, the moratorium imposed under

      Section 14  should apply to the personal guarantor as well.


       6.       Shri Sanjay Kapur, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

     Appellant in C.A. No. 3595 of 2018, and Shri C.U. Singh, learned Senior

     Advocate appearing on behalf of Appellant in C.A. No. 4553 of 2018,

     both argued that the corporate debtor and personal guarantor are

     separate entities and that a corporate debtor undergoing insolvency

     proceedings under the Code would not mean that a personal guarantor

     is also undergoing the same process. As the guarantor’s liability is

     distinct and separate from that of the corporate debtor, a suit can be

     maintained against the surety, though the principal debtor has not been

     sued. For this purpose, they relied upon  Section 128  of the Indian

     Contract Act, 1872. They also relied heavily upon the reasoning

     contained in a judgment by a Single Judge of the Bombay High Court in

     M/s. Sicom Investments and Finance Ltd. v. Rajesh Kumar Drolia

     and Anr.1 They then referred to Part III of the Code, and in particular, to

     Sections 96 and 101. Although Part III of the Code has not been brought

     into force, it is clear that if an insolvency resolution process is to be

     carried out against a personal guarantor, it can be done only under Part

 1 
    (2017) SCC Online Bom 9725 (decided on 28.11.2017).
                                                                                4 
III, which contains a separate moratorium provision, namely, Sections 96

and 101, both of which would attach only if a separate insolvency

process were carried out as against the personal guarantor. Shri Singh,

in particular, relied heavily upon the difference in language between

 Section 14  and Section 101. According to the learned senior counsel,

 Section 14 , in all its sub-sections, speaks only of the corporate debtor.

When contrasted with Section 101, it becomes clear that  Section 14 

cannot possibly attach to a personal guarantor as well, as Section 101

does not speak of a ‘debtor’ but speaks ‘in relation to the debt’ and is not

only wider than  Section 14 , but would attach only if Part III proceedings

were to be instituted against the personal guarantor. They also relied

heavily upon the Amendment Ordinance dated 06.06.2018, by which

 Section 14(3)  of the Code was substituted, including a surety in a

contract of guarantee to a corporate debtor. They relied upon the

Insolvency Law Committee proceedings, which led to the aforesaid

amendment, stating that it had been recommended to clarify, by way of

an explanation, that all assets of such guarantors to the corporate debtor

shall be outside the scope of the moratorium imposed under the Code.

The very impugned judgment in the present proceedings was referred to

by the Insolvency Law Committee stating that such a broad interpretation

                                                                            5 
     of  Section 14  would curtail significant rights of the creditor. They relied

     upon judgments which made it clear that clarificatory statutes, like this

     amendment, would have retrospective operation and that, therefore, in

     any case, the impugned judgment would have to be set aside.


        7.        Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondents first

     took shelter under Section 60(2) of the Code, as according to the learned

     counsel, the said Section precludes the bank from proceeding against

     the personal guarantor under SARFAESI or any other Act outside the

     Code. He relied upon the reasoning of the Tribunal and took shelter

     under  Section 31 , as did the Tribunal. He also relied upon a judgment of

     the Allahabad High Court in  Sanjeev Shriya v. State Bank of India and

     Ors.,2  which stated that as a proceeding relatable to the corporate debtor

     is pending adjudication in two forums, it is not permissible to proceed

     against the personal guarantor. A financial creditor cannot operate in a

     manner that imperils the value of the property of the personal debtor. He

     also relied strongly upon the  Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

     (Amendment) Act, 2018  which came into effect on 23.11.2017, by which,

     clause (e) of  Section 2  was substituted so as to include within the sweep

     of the Code, personal guarantors to corporate debtors. He then relied

 2 
    (2018) 2 All LJ 769 (decided on 06.09.2017). 
                                                                                 6  
upon the Statement of Objects of the Amendment Act, 2018, which was,

inter alia, to extend the provisions of the Code to personal guarantors of

corporate debtors, to further strengthen the corporate insolvency

resolution process. He then relied upon certain statutory forms which are

contained in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating

Authority) Rules, 2016 and in particular, to Annexure VI(e) to Form 6.

 Regulation 36(2)  of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India

(Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations,

2016 also provides, as did Annexure VI(e), that information as to

personal guarantees have to be given in relation to the debts of the

corporate debtor when an insolvency process is initiated against the

corporate debtor. All this would show that since the personal guarantor is

very much part of the overall process, the moratorium contained in

 Section 14  of the Code should apply to the personal guarantor as well.


  8.    We appointed Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate, to

assist us as Amicus Curiae in this matter. We thank him for the valuable

assistance that he has rendered. He has pointed out that the whole idea

of the Insolvency Code was that the history of debt recovery had shown

that the earlier statutes were loaded heavily in favour of corporate

debtors and that, as a result, huge outstanding debts to banks and
                                                                          7 
financial institutions had not been repaid. In particular, he pointed out

 Section 22  of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,

1985, and stated that as a result of the said Section applying to

guarantors as well, creditors could not proceed against guarantors as

well after the company had been declared sick under the said Act,

without permission from the Board for Industrial and Financial

Reconstruction. Now that the said Act has been repealed, and the fact

that several later enactments, including the  Companies Act, 2013  had

omitted a provision akin to  Section 22 , would show that the enactment of

 Section 14  of the Code was deliberate, and that the idea was that there

should be no stay of proceedings against the guarantor while the

corporate debtor is undergoing an insolvency proceeding. For this, he

cited various judgments. He also relied upon the Amendment Act, 2018

and stated that since the Act was to get over the appellate judgment in

particular, and since it was clarificatory, the position in law would be that

it would be retrospective, and would thus govern the case at hand.


  9.     Before dealing with the arguments of learned counsel on both

sides, it is important at this stage to set out some of the provisions of the

Code. One difficulty that we faced when hearing the matter was that

different provisions of the Code were brought into force on different
                                                                             8 
dates, as  Section 1(3)  indicates. Also, certain important provisions of the

Code have not yet been brought into force. This we will advert to a little

later in our judgment.
 
 
  10.     Section 2(e)  of the Code, as originally enacted, reads as under:


           “2. Application.— The provisions of this Code shall
         apply to—
         xxx xxx xxx
            (e) partnership firms and individuals;
           xxx xxx xxx”


By the Amendment Act, 2018, this Section was substituted as follows:


           “2. Application.— The provisions of this Code shall
         apply to—
         xxx xxx xxx
            (e) personal guarantors to corporate debtors;
           xxx xxx xxx”

Though the original  Section 2(e)  did not come into force at all, the

substituted  Section 2(e)  has come into force w.e.f. 23.11.2017.


  11.     Section 3(7) , (8) and (11) of the Code read as under:


           “3. Definitions.— In this Code, unless the context
         otherwise requires,—
         (7) “corporate person” means a company as defined
         in clause (20) of Section 2 of the Companies Act,
                                                                           9 
        2013 (18 of 2013), a limited liability partnership, as
        defined in clause (n) of sub-section (1) of  Section 2 
        of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of
        2009), or any other person incorporated with limited
        liability under any law for the time being in force but
        shall not include any financial service provider;
        (8) “corporate debtor” means a corporate person
        who owes a debt to any person;”
        xxx xxx xxx
        “(11) “debt” means a liability or obligation in respect
        of a claim which is due from any person and
        includes a financial debt and operational debt;”

  12.    Section 5(8)(i)  of the Code reads as follows:

          “5. Definitions.— In this Part, unless the context
        otherwise requires,—
        xxx xxx xxx
        (8) “financial debt” means a debt along with interest,
        if any, which is disbursed against the consideration
        for the time value of money and includes—
             xxx xxx xxx
               (i) the amount of any liability in respect of any of
             the guarantee or indemnity for any of the items
             referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (h) of this
             clause;
               xxx xxx xxx”

  13.    Section 5(22)  of the Code read as follows:
 
         “5. Definitions.— In this Part, unless the context
        otherwise requires,—
        xxx xxx xxx



                                                                     10 
        (22) “personal guarantor” means an individual who
        is the surety in a contract of guarantee to a
        corporate debtor;”

  14.    Sections 14 ,  31 , 60, 95, 101, 238, 243, and 249 of the Code read

as under:
 
         “14. Moratorium.— (1) Subject to provisions of sub-
        sections (2) and (3), on the insolvency
        commencement date, the Adjudicating Authority
        shall by order declare moratorium for prohibiting all
        of the following, namely—
               (a) the institution of suits or continuation of
             pending suits or proceedings against the
             corporate debtor including execution of any
             judgment, decree or order in any court of law,
             tribunal, arbitration panel or other authority;
              (b) transferring, encumbering, alienating or
            disposing of by the corporate debtor any of its
            assets or any legal right or beneficial interest
            therein;
              (c) any action to foreclose, recover or enforce
            any security interest created by the corporate
            debtor in respect of its property including any
            action    under     the     Securitisation   and
            Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
            Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002  (54
            of 2002);
              (d) the recovery of any property by an owner or
            lessor where such property is occupied by or in
            the possession of the corporate debtor.
        (2) The supply of essential goods or services to the
        corporate debtor as may be specified shall not be
        terminated or suspended or interrupted during
        moratorium period.
 

                                                                     11 
 (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply
to such transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in consultation with any
financial sector regulator.
  (4) The order of moratorium shall have effect from
the date of such order till the completion of the
corporate insolvency resolution process:
  Provided that where at any time during the
corporate insolvency resolution process period, if
the Adjudicating Authority approves the resolution
plan under sub-section (1) of  Section 31  or passes
an order for liquidation of corporate debtor under
 Section 33 , the moratorium shall cease to have
effect from the date of such approval or liquidation
order, as the case may be.”

xxx xxx xxx

“31. Approval of resolution plan.— (1) If the
Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution
plan as approved by the committee of creditors
under sub-section (4) of  section 30  meets the
requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of
 Section 30 , it shall by order approve the resolution
plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor
and its employees, members, creditors, guarantors
and other stakeholders involved in the resolution
plan.
  (2) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that
the resolution plan does not confirm to the
requirements referred to in sub-section (1), it may,
by an order, reject the resolution plan.
(3) After the order of approval under sub-section (1),
—
      (a) the moratorium order passed by the
    Adjudicating Authority under Section 14 shall
    cease to have effect; and
                                                           12 
      (b) the resolution professional shall forward all
    records relating to the conduct of the corporate
    insolvency resolution process and the
    resolution plan to the Board to be recorded on
    its database.”

xxx xxx xxx

“60. Adjudicating Authority for corporate
persons.— (1) The Adjudicating Authority, in
relation to insolvency resolution and liquidation for
corporate persons including corporate debtors and
personal guarantors thereof shall be the National
Company Law Tribunal having territorial jurisdiction
over the place where the registered office of the
corporate person is located.
  (2) Without prejudice to sub-section (1) and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this Code, where a corporate insolvency
resolution process or liquidation proceeding of a
corporate debtor is pending before a National
Company Law Tribunal, an application relating to the
insolvency resolution or bankruptcy of a personal
guarantor of such corporate debtor shall be filed
before such National Company Law Tribunal.
(3) An insolvency resolution process or bankruptcy
proceeding of a personal guarantor of the corporate
debtor pending in any court or tribunal shall stand
transferred to the Adjudicating Authority dealing with
insolvency resolution process or liquidation
proceeding of such corporate debtor.
(4) The National Company Law Tribunal shall be
vested with all the powers of the Debts Recovery
Tribunal as contemplated under Part III of this Code
for the purpose of sub-section (2).
  (5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other law for the time being in

                                                          13 
force, the National Company Law Tribunal shall
have jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of—
      (a) any application or proceeding by or against
    the corporate debtor or corporate person;
      (b) any claim made by or against the corporate
    debtor or corporate person, including claims by
    or against any of its subsidiaries situated in
    India; and
      (c) any question of priorities or any question of
    law or facts, arising out of or in relation to the
    insolvency resolution or liquidation proceedings
    of the corporate debtor or corporate person
    under this Code.
  (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
 Limitation Act, 1963  (36 of 1963) or in any other law
for the time being in force, in computing the period
of limitation specified for any suit or application by or
against a corporate debtor for which an order of
moratorium has been made under this Part, the
period during which such moratorium is in place
shall be excluded.”

xxx xxx xxx

“96.   Interim-moratorium.—         (1)   When     an
application is filed under Section 94 or Section 95—

      (a) an interim-moratorium shall commence on
    the date of the application in relation to all the
    debts and shall cease to have effect on the date
    of admission of such application; and

      (b) during the interim-moratorium period—

         (i) any legal action or proceeding pending in
       respect of any debt shall be deemed to have
       been stayed; and

                                                             14 
         (ii) the creditors of the debtor shall not initiate
       any legal action or proceedings in respect of
       any debt.
 
 (2) Where the application has been made in relation
to a firm, the interim-moratorium under sub-section
(1) shall operate against all the partners of the firm
as on the date of the application.
 
 (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply
to such transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in consultation with any
financial sector regulator.”

xxx xxx xxx

“101. Moratorium.— (1) When the application is
admitted under Section 100, a moratorium shall
commence in relation to all the debts and shall
cease to have effect at the end of the period of one
hundred and eighty days beginning with the date of
admission of the application or on the date the
Adjudicating Authority passes an order on the
repayment plan under Section 114, whichever is
earlier.
  (2) During the moratorium period—
      (a) any pending legal action or proceeding in
    respect of any debt shall be deemed to have
    been stayed;
      (b) the creditors shall not initiate any legal
    action or legal proceedings in respect of any
    debt; and
      (c) the debtor shall not transfer, alienate,
    encumber or dispose of any of his assets or his
    legal rights or beneficial interest therein;
(3) Where an order admitting the application under
Section 96 has been made in relation to a firm, the

                                                              15 
moratorium under sub-section (1) shall operate
against all the partners of the firm.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to
such transactions as may be notified by the Central
Government in consultation with any financial sector
regulator.”
xxx xxx xxx

“238. Provisions of this Code to override other
laws.— The provisions of this Code shall have
effect,    notwithstanding anything   inconsistent
therewith contained in any other law for the time
being in force or any instrument having effect by
virtue of any such law.”

xxx xxx xxx

 “243. Repeal of certain enactments and savings.
  — (1)  The Presidency-Towns Insolvency Act, 1909 
(3 of 1909) and the  Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 
(5 of 1920) are hereby repealed.
  (2) Notwithstanding the repeal under sub-sections
(1),—
      (i) all proceedings pending under and relating to
    the  Presidency-Towns Insolvency Act, 1909 ,
    and the  Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 
    immediately before the commencement of this
    Code shall continue to be governed under the
    aforementioned Acts and be heard and
    disposed of by the concerned courts or
    tribunals, as if the aforementioned Acts have
    not been repealed;
      (ii) any order, rule, notification, regulation,
    appointment, conveyance, mortgage, deed,
    document or agreement made, fee directed,
    resolution passed, direction given, proceeding
    taken, instrument executed or issued, or thing
    done under or in pursuance of any repealed
                                                         16 
enactment shall, if in force at the
commencement of this Code, continue to be in
force, and shall have effect as if the
aforementioned Acts have not been repealed;
  (iii) anything done or any action taken or
purported to have been done or taken, including
any rule, notification, inspection, order or notice
made or issued or any appointment or
declaration made or any operation undertaken
or any direction given or any proceeding taken
or any penalty, punishment, forfeiture or fine
imposed under the repealed enactments shall
be deemed valid;
  (iv) any principle or rule of law, or established
jurisdiction, form or course of pleading, practice
or procedure or existing usage, custom,
privilege, restriction or exemption shall not be
affected, notwithstanding that the same
respectively may have been in any manner
affirmed or recognised or derived by, in, or from,
the repealed enactments;
  (v) any prosecution instituted under the
repealed enactments and pending immediately
before the commencement of this Code before
any court or tribunal shall, subject to the
provisions of this Code, continue to be heard
and disposed of by the concerned court or
tribunal;
  (vi) any person appointed to any office under or
by virtue of any repealed enactment shall
continue to hold such office until such time as
may be prescribed; and
  (vii) any jurisdiction, custom, liability, right, title,
privilege,     restriction,  exemption,        usage,
practice, procedure or other matter or thing not
in existence or in force shall not be revised or
restored.
                                                             17  
          (3) The mention of particular matters in sub-section
          (2) shall not be held to prejudice the general
          application of  Section 6  of the General Clauses Act,
          1897 (10 of 1897) with regard to the effect of repeal
          of the repealed enactments or provisions of the
          enactments mentioned in the Schedule.”

          xxx xxx xxx

            “249. Amendments of Act, 51 of 1993.—  The
          Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
          Institutions Act, 1993  shall be amended in the
          manner specified in the Fifth Schedule.”

  15.    The first important thing that needs to be noticed is that, as has

been stated earlier in this judgment, Part III of the Code has not yet been

brought into force. This part is entitled “Insolvency Resolution and

Bankruptcy for Individuals and Partnership Firms”. The repealing

provision, namely Section 243, which repeals the  Presidency Towns

Insolvency Act, 1909  and the  Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 , has also

not been brought into force. Section 249, which amends the  Recovery of

Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 , so that the Debt

Recovery Tribunals under that Act can exercise the jurisdiction of the

Adjudicating Authority conferred by the Code, has also not been brought

into force.
 
 16.    Under Part II of the Code, which deals with “Insolvency Resolution

and Liquidation for Corporate Persons”, a financial creditor or a corporate
                                                                         18 
debtor may make an application to initiate this process. Once initiated,

the Adjudicating Authority, after admission of such an application, shall by

order, declare a moratorium for the purposes referred to in  Section 14 

(See  Section 13  of the Code).
 
 
  17.     Section 14  refers to four matters that may be prohibited once the

moratorium comes into effect. In each of the matters referred to, be it

institution or continuation of proceedings, the transferring, encumbering

or alienating of assets, action to recover security interest, or recovery of

property by an owner which is in possession of the corporate debtor,

what is conspicuous by its absence is any mention of the personal

guarantor. Indeed, the corporate debtor and the corporate debtor alone is

referred to in the said Section. A plain reading of the said Section,

therefore, leads to the conclusion that the moratorium referred to in

 Section 14  can have no manner of application to personal guarantors of

a corporate debtor.
 
 
  18.    However,  Sections 2(e)  and Section 60 are strongly relied upon by

learned counsel for the Respondents as, according to them, the Code

will apply to personal guarantors of corporate debtors, and by  Section




                                                                          19  
60, proceedings against such personal guarantors will show that such

moratorium extends to the guarantor as well.
 
 
  19.    We are afraid that such arguments have to be turned down on a

careful reading of the Sections relied upon. Section 60 of the Code, in

sub-section (1) thereof, refers to insolvency resolution and liquidation for

both corporate debtors and personal guarantors, the Adjudicating

Authority for which shall be the National Company Law Tribunal, having

territorial jurisdiction over the place where the registered office of the

corporate person is located. This sub-section is only important in that it

locates the Tribunal which has territorial jurisdiction in insolvency

resolution processes against corporate debtors. So far as personal

guarantors are concerned, we have seen that Part III has not been

brought into force, and neither has Section 243, which repeals the

 Presidency-Towns Insolvency Act, 1909  and the  Provincial Insolvency

Act, 1920 . The net result of this is that so far as individual personal

guarantors are concerned, they will continue to be proceeded against

under the aforesaid two Insolvency Acts and not under the Code. Indeed,

by a Press Release dated 28.08.2017, the Government of India, through

the Ministry of Finance, cautioned that Section 243 of the Code, which

provides for the repeal of said enactments, has not been notified till date,
                                                                          20 
and further, that the provisions relating to insolvency resolution and

bankruptcy for individuals and partnerships as contained in Part III of the

Code are yet to be notified. Hence, it was advised that stakeholders who

intend to pursue their insolvency cases may approach the appropriate

authority/court under the existing enactments, instead of approaching the

Debt Recovery Tribunals.
 
 
  20.    It is for this reason that sub-section (2) of  Section 60  speaks of an

application relating to the “bankruptcy” of a personal guarantor of a

corporate debtor and states that any such bankruptcy proceedings shall

be filed only before the National Company Law Tribunal. The argument

of the learned counsel on behalf of the Respondents that “bankruptcy”

would include SARFAESI proceedings must be turned down as

“bankruptcy” has reference only to the two Insolvency Acts  referred to

above . Thus, SARFAESI proceedings against the guarantor can continue

under the  SARFAESI Act . Similarly, sub-section (3) speaks of a

bankruptcy proceeding of a personal guarantor of the corporate debtor

pending in any Court or Tribunal, which shall stand transferred to the

Adjudicating Authority dealing with the insolvency resolution process or

liquidation proceedings of such corporate debtor. An “Adjudicating


                                                                          21 
Authority”, defined under  Section 5(1)  of the Code, means the National

Company Law Tribunal constituted under the  Companies Act, 2013 .


  21.    The scheme of Section 60(2) and (3) is thus clear – the moment

there is a proceeding against the corporate debtor pending under the

2016 Code, any bankruptcy proceeding against the individual personal

guarantor will, if already initiated before the proceeding against the

corporate debtor, be transferred to the National Company Law Tribunal

or, if initiated after such proceedings had been commenced against the

corporate debtor, be filed only in the National Company Law Tribunal.

However, the Tribunal is to decide such proceedings only in accordance

with the  Presidency-Towns Insolvency Act, 1909  or the  Provincial

Insolvency Act, 1920 , as the case may be. It is clear that sub-section (4),

which states that the Tribunal shall be vested with all the powers of the

Debt Recovery Tribunal, as contemplated under Part III of this Code, for

the purposes of sub-section (2), would not take effect, as the Debt

Recovery Tribunal has not yet been empowered to hear bankruptcy

proceedings against individuals under Section 179 of the Code, as the

said Section has not yet been brought into force. Also, we have seen that

Section 249, dealing with the consequential amendment of the Recovery

of Debts Act to empower Debt Recovery Tribunals to try such
                                                                         22 
proceedings, has also not been brought into force. It is thus clear that

 Section 2(e) , which was brought into force on 23.11.2017 would, when it

refers to the application of the Code to a personal guarantor of a

corporate debtor, apply only for the limited purpose contained in  Section

60(2)  and (3), as stated hereinabove. This is what is meant by

strengthening the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process in the

Statement of Objects of the Amendment Act, 2018.


  22.    Section 31  of the Act was also strongly relied upon by the

Respondents. This Section only states that once a Resolution Plan, as

approved by the Committee of Creditors, takes effect, it shall be binding

on the corporate debtor as well as the guarantor. This is for the reason

that otherwise, under  Section 133  of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, any

change made to the debt owed by the corporate debtor, without the

surety’s consent, would relieve the guarantor from payment.  Section

31(1) , in fact, makes it clear that the guarantor cannot escape payment

as the Resolution Plan, which has been approved, may well include

provisions as to payments to be made by such guarantor. This is perhaps

the reason that Annexure VI(e) to Form 6 contained in the Rules and

 Regulation 36(2)   referred to above , require information as to personal

guarantees that have been given in relation to the debts of the corporate
                                                                       23 
debtor. Far from supporting the stand of the Respondents, it is clear that

in point of fact,  Section 31  is one more factor in favour of a personal

guarantor having to pay for debts due without any moratorium applying

to save him.
 
 
  23.    We are also of the opinion that  Sections 96  and  101 , when

contrasted with  Section 14 , would show that  Section 14  cannot possibly

apply to a personal guarantor. When an application is filed under Part III,

an interim-moratorium or a moratorium is applicable in respect of any

debt due. First and foremost, this is a separate moratorium, applicable

separately in the case of personal guarantors against whom insolvency

resolution processes may be initiated under Part III. Secondly, the

protection of the moratorium under these Sections is far greater than that

of  Section 14  in that pending legal proceedings in respect of the debt and

not the debtor are stayed. The difference in language between  Sections

14  and  101  is for a reason.  Section 14  refers only to debts due by

corporate debtors, who are limited liability companies, and it is clear that

in the vast majority of cases, personal guarantees are given by Directors

who are in management of the companies. The object of the Code is not

to allow such guarantors to escape from an independent and co-

extensive liability to pay off the entire outstanding debt, which is why
                                                                          24 
 Section 14  is not applied to them. However, insofar as firms and

individuals are concerned, guarantees are given in respect of individual

debts by persons who have unlimited liability to pay them.  And such

guarantors may be complete strangers to the debtor – often it could be a

personal friend. It is for this reason that the moratorium mentioned in

 Section 101  would cover such persons, as such moratorium is in relation

to the debt and not the debtor. We may hasten to add that it is open to us

to mark the difference in language between  Sections 14  and  96  and  101 ,

even though  Sections 96  and  101  have not yet been brought into force.

This is for the reason, as has been held in  State of Kerala and Ors. v.

Mar Appraem Kuri Co. Ltd. and Anr. , (2012) 7 SCC 106, that a law

‘made’ by the Legislature is a law on the statute book even though it may

not have been brought into force. The said judgment states: 


        “79. The proviso to  Article 254(2)  provides that a
      law made by the State Legislature with the President&#x27;s
      assent shall not prevent Parliament from making at
      any time any law with respect to the same matter
      including a law adding to, amending, varying or
      repealing the law so made by a State Legislature.
      Thus, Parliament need not wait for the law made by
      the State Legislature with the President&#x27;s assent to be
      brought into force as it can repeal, amend, vary or add
      to the assented State law no sooner it is made or
      enacted. We see no justification for inhibiting
      Parliament from repealing, amending or varying any
      State legislation, which has received the President&#x27;s
                                                                        25 
assent, overriding within the State&#x27;s territory, an earlier
parliamentary enactment in the concurrent sphere,
before it is brought into force. Parliament can repeal,
amend, or vary such State law no sooner it is assented
to by the President and that it need not wait till such
assented-to State law is brought into force. This view
finds support in the judgment of this Court in Tulloch
[AIR 1964 SC 1284 : (1964) 4 SCR 461] .
 
 80. Lastly, the definitions of the expressions “laws in
force” in  Article 13(3)(b)  and  Article 372(3)  Explanation
I and “existing law” in  Article 366(10)  show that the
laws in force include laws passed or made by a
legislature before the commencement of the
Constitution and not repealed, notwithstanding that
any such law may not be in operation at all. Thus, the
definition of the expression “laws in force” in  Article
13(3)(b)  and  Article 372(3)  Explanation I and the
definition of the expression “existing law” in  Article
366(10)  demolish the argument of the State of Kerala
that a law has not been made for the purposes of
 Article 254 , unless it is enforced. The expression
“existing law” finds place in  Article 254.   In  Edward
Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Ajmer  [AIR 1955 SC 25], this
Court has held that there is no difference between an
“existing law” and a “law in force”. 
 
 81. Applying the tests enumerated hereinabove, we
hold that the  Kerala Chitties Act, 1975  became void on
the making of the  Chit Funds Act, 1982  on 19-8-1982,
[when it received the assent of the President and got
published in the Official Gazette] as the Central 1982
Act intended to cover the entire field with regard to the
conduct of the chits and further that the  State Finance
Act  7 of 2002, introducing  Section 4(1)(a)  into the
State 1975 Act, was void as the State Legislature was
denuded of its authority to enact the said  Finance Act 
7 of 2002, except under  Article 254(2) , after the

                                                               26 
        (Central) Chit Funds Act, 1982  occupied the entire field
       as envisaged in  Article 254(1)  of the Constitution.”


  24.    Thus, for the purpose of interpretation, it is certainly open for us to

contrast  Section 14  with  Sections 96  and  101 , as  Sections 96  and  101 

are laws made by the Legislature, even though they have not yet been

brought into force.
 

 25.    As argued by Shri Viswanathan, the historical background of the

Code now needs to be looked at.  Section 22  of the Sick Industrial

Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 reads as follows:
 

          “22. Suspension of legal proceedings, contracts,
         etc.—(1) Where in respect of an industrial company,
         an inquiry under  Section 16  is pending or any
         scheme referred to under  Section 17  is under
         preparation or consideration or a sanctioned
         scheme is under implementation or where an appeal
         under  Section 25  relating to an industrial company is
         pending, then, notwithstanding anything contained
         in the  Companies Act, 1956  (1 of 1956), or any other
         law or the memorandum and articles of association
         of the industrial company or any other instrument
         having effect under the said Act or other law, no
         proceedings for the winding up of the industrial
         company or for execution, distress or the like
         against any of the properties of the industrial
         company or for the appointment of a receiver in
         respect thereof [and no suit for the recovery of
         money or for the enforcement of any security
         against the industrial company or of any guarantee
         in respect of any loans or advance granted to the
                                                                            27 
industrial company] shall lie or be proceeded with
further, except with the consent of the Board or, as
the case may be, the Appellate Authority.
(2) Where the management of the sick industrial
company is taken over or changed [in pursuance of
any scheme sanctioned under  Section 18 ]
notwithstanding     anything contained    in    the
 Companies Act, 1956  (1 of 1956), or any other law
or in the memorandum and articles of association of
such company or any instrument having effect under
the said Act or other law—
      (a) it shall not be lawful for the shareholders of
    such company or any other person to nominate
    or appoint any person to be a director of the
    company;
      (b) no resolution passed at any meeting of the
    shareholders of such company shall be given
    effect to unless approved by the Board.
(3) [Where an inquiry under  Section 16  is pending or
any scheme referred to in  Section 17  is under
preparation or during the period] of consideration of
any scheme under  Section 18  or where any such
scheme is sanctioned thereunder, for due
implementation of the scheme, the Board may by
order declare with respect to the sick industrial
company concerned that the operation of all or any
of the contracts, assurances of property,
agreements, settlements, awards, standing orders
or other instruments in force, to which such sick
industrial company is a party or which may be
applicable to such sick industrial company
immediately before the date of such order, shall
remain suspended or that all or any of the rights,
privileges, obligations and liabilities accruing or
arising thereunder before the said date, shall remain
suspended or shall be enforceable with such
adaptations and in such manner as may be
specified by the Board:
                                                           28 
 Provided that such declaration shall not be made for
a period exceeding two years which may be
extended by one year at a time so, however, that the
total period shall not exceed seven years in the
aggregate.
  (4) Any declaration made under sub-section (3) with
respect to a sick industrial company shall have
effect notwithstanding anything contained in the
 Companies Act, 1956  (1 of 1956), or any other law,
the memorandum and articles of association of the
company or any instrument having effect under the
said Act or other law or any agreement or any
decree or order of a court, tribunal, officer or other
authority or of any submission, settlement or
standing order and accordingly,—
      (a) any remedy for the enforcement of any right,
    privilege, obligation and liability suspended or
    modified by such declaration, and all
    proceedings relating thereto pending before any
    court, tribunal, officer or other authority shall
    remain stayed or be continued subject to such
    declaration; and
      (b) on the declaration ceasing to have effect—
         (i) any right, privilege, obligation or liability so
       remaining suspended or modified, shall
       become revived and enforceable as if the
       declaration had never been made; and
         (ii) any proceeding so remaining stayed shall
       be proceeded with subject to the provisions
       of any law which may then be in force, from
       the stage which had been reached when the
       proceedings became stayed.
  (5) In computing the period of limitation for the
enforcement of any right, privilege, obligation or
liability, the period during which it or the remedy for
the enforcement thereof remains suspended under
this section shall be excluded.
                                                                29 
 It will be clear from a reading of sub-section (1) thereof that suits for the

enforcement of any guarantee in respect of loans or advances granted to

the industrial company, shall not lie or be proceeded with further, except

with the consent of the Board or Appellate Authority. It may be noted that

the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985  was

repealed on 01.12.2016. By a notification dated 30.11.2016,  Section 14 

of the Code was brought into force w.e.f. 01.12.2016.  In  Madras

Petrochem Ltd. and Anr. v. Board  for Industrial and Financial

Reconstruction and Ors., (2016) 4 SCC 1, this Court found: 

           “40. An interesting pointer to the direction Parliament
         has taken after enactment of the  Securitisation and
         Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement
         of Security Interest Act, 2002  is also of some
         relevance in this context. The Eradi Committee
         Report relating to insolvency and winding up of
         companies dated 31-7-2000, observed that out of
         3068 cases referred to BIFR from 1987 to 2000 all
         but 1062 cases have been disposed of. Out of the
         cases disposed of, 264 cases were revived, 375
         cases were under negotiation for revival process,
         741 cases were recommended for winding up, and
         626 cases were dismissed as not maintainable.
           These facts and figures speak for themselves and
         place a big question mark on the utility of the  Sick
         Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 .
         The Committee further pointed out that effectiveness
         of the  Sick Industrial Companies (Special
         Provisions) Act, 1985  as has been pointed out
         earlier, has been severely undermined by reason of
         the enormous delays involved in the disposal of
                                                                           30 
cases by BIFR. (See Paras 5.8, 5.9 and 5.15 of the
Report.)     Consequently,      the     Committee
recommended that the  Sick Industrial Companies
(Special Provisions) Act, 1985  be repealed and the
provisions thereunder for revival and rehabilitation
should be telescoped into the structure of the
 Companies Act, 1956  itself.
 
 41. Pursuant to the Eradi Committee Report, the
Companies Act was amended in 2002 by providing
for the constitution of a National Company Law
Tribunal as a substitute for the Company Law
Board, the High Court, BIFR and AAIFR. The Eradi
Committee Report was further given effect to by
inserting Sections 424-A to 424-H into the
 Companies Act, 1956  which, with a few changes,
mirrored the provisions of  Sections 15  to  21  of the
Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
1985. Interestingly, the Companies Amendment Act,
2002 omitted a provision similar to  Section 22(1)  of
the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions)
Act, 1985. Consequently, creditors were given liberty
to file suits or initiate other proceedings for recovery
of dues despite pendency of proceedings for the
revival or rehabilitation of sick companies before the
National Company Law Tribunal.
 
 xxx xxx xxx

  43. Close on the heels of the amendment made to
the  Companies Act  came the  Sick Industrial
Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003 .
This particular Act was meant to repeal the  Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 
consequent to some of its provisions being
telescoped into the  Companies Act . Thus, the
Companies Amendment Act, 2002 and the SICA
Repeal Act formed part of one legislative scheme,
and neither has yet been brought into force. In fact,
even the  Companies Act, 2013 , which repeals the
                                                            31 
 Companies Act, 1956 , contains Chapter 19
consisting of Sections 253 to 269 dealing with
revival and rehabilitation of sick companies along
the lines of Sections 424-A to 424-H of the amended
 Companies Act, 1956 . Conspicuous by its absence
is a provision akin to  Section 22(1)  of the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985
in the 2013 Act. However, this Chapter is also yet to
be brought into force. These statutory provisions,
though not yet brought into force, are also an
important pointer to the fact that  Section 22(1)  of the
Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
1985 has been statutorily sought to be excluded,
Parliament veering around from wanting to protect
sick industrial companies and rehabilitate them to
giving credence to the public interest contained in
the recovery of public monies owing to banks and
financial institutions. These provisions also show
that the aforesaid construction of the provisions of
the  Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002  vis-à-vis the  Sick Industrial Companies
(Special Provisions) Act, 1985 , leans in favour of
creditors being able to realise their debts outside the
court process over sick industrial companies being
revived or rehabilitated. In fact, another interesting
document is the Report on Trend and Progress of
Banking in India 2011-2012 for the year ended 30-6-
2012 submitted by Reserve Bank of India to the
Central Government in terms of  Section 36(2)  of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949. In Table IV.14 the
Report provides statistics regarding trends in non-
performing assets bank-wise, group-wise. As per the
said Table, the opening balance of non-performing
assets in public sector banks for the year 2011-2012
was Rs 746 billion but the closing balance for 2011-
2012 was Rs 1172 billion only. The total amount
recovered      through    the      Securitisation   and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement
of Security Interest Act, 2002  during 2011-2012
                                                           32 
         registered a decline compared to the previous year,
         but, even then, the amounts recovered under the
         said Act constituted 70% of the total amount
         recovered. The amounts recovered under the
          Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
         Institutions Act, 1993  constituted only 28%. All this
         would go to show that the amounts that public
         sector banks and financial institutions have to
         recover are in staggering figures and at long last at
         least one statutory measure has proved to be of
         some efficacy. This Court would be loathe to give
         such an interpretation as would thwart the recovery
         process under the  Securitisation and Reconstruction
         of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
         Interest Act, 2002  which Act alone seems to have
         worked to some extent at least.
 
          44. It will, thus, be seen that notwithstanding the non
         obstante clauses in  Sections 22(1)  and (4), read
         with  Section 32 ,  Section 22  of the Sick Industrial
         Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 will have
         to give way to the measures taken under the
          Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
         Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
         2002 , more particularly referred to in  Section 13  of
         the said Act, and that this being the case, the sale
         notices issued both in 2003 and 2013 could
         continue without in any manner being thwarted by
          Section 22  of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special
         Provisions) Act, 1985.”
                                            (emphasis supplied)

It is thus clear that for this reason also, it is obvious that Parliament,

when it enacted  Section 14 , had this history in mind and specifically did

not provide for any moratorium along the lines of  Section 22  of the Sick



                                                                        33 
 Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985  in  Section 14  of the

Code.
 
 
  26.     The reasoning of the Bombay High Court in the judgment of M/s.

Sicom Investments and Finance Ltd. (supra) commends itself to us.

The reasoning of the Allahabad High Court, on the other hand, does not.


  27.     We now come to the argument that the amendment of 2018,

which makes it clear that  Section 14(3) , is now substituted to read that

the provisions of sub-section (1) of  Section 14  shall not apply to a surety

in a contract of guarantee for corporate debtor. The amended Section

reads as follows:
 
           “14. Moratorium.—
          xxx xxx xxx
          (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply
          to—
                (a) such transactions as may be notified by the
              Central Government in consultation with any
              financial sector regulator;
                (b) a surety in a contract of guarantee to a
              corporate debtor.”


  28.     The Insolvency Law Committee, appointed by the Ministry of

Corporate Affairs, by its Report dated 26.03.2018, made certain key

recommendations, one of which was:
 
                                                                          34 
           “(iv) to clear the confusion regarding treatment of
         assets of guarantors of the corporate debtor vis-à-
         vis the moratorium on the assets of the corporate
         debtor, it has been recommended to clarify by way
         of an explanation that all assets of such guarantors
         to the corporate debtor shall be outside scope of
         moratorium imposed under the Code;”


The Committee insofar as the moratorium under  Section 14  is

concerned, went on to find:
 

           “5.5  Section 14  provides for a moratorium or a stay
         on institution or continuation of proceeding, suits,
         etc. against the corporate debtor and its assets.
         There have been contradicting views on the scope
         of moratorium regarding its application to third
         parties affected by the debt of the corporate debtor,
         like guarantors or sureties. While some courts have
         taken the view that  Section 14  may be interpreted
         literally to mean that it only restricts actions against
         the assets of the corporate debtor, a few others
         have taken an interpretation that the stay applies on
         enforcement of guarantee as well, if a CIRP is going
         on against the corporate debtor.”

         xxx xxx xxx

         “5.7 The Allahabad High Court subsequently took a
         differing view in  Sanjeev Shriya v. State Bank of
         India , 2017 (9) ADJ 723, by applying moratorium to
         enforcement of guarantee against personal
         guarantor to the debt. The rationale being that if a
         CRIP is going on against the corporate debtor, then
         the debt owed by the corporate debtor is not final till
         the resolution plan is approved, and thus the liability
         of the surety would also be unclear. The Court took
         the view that until debt of the corporate debtor is
         crystallised, the guarantor’s liability may not be
                                                                     35 
triggered. The Committee deliberated and noted that
this would meant that surety’s liabilities are put on
hold if a CIRP is going on against the corporate
debtor, and such an interpretation may lead to the
contracts of guarantee being infructuous, and not
serving the purpose for which they have been
entered into. 
 
 5.8 In State Bank of India v. V. Ramakrishnan and
Veeson Energy Systems, NCLAT, New Delhi,
Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 213/2017
[Date of decision – 28 February, 2018], the NCLAT
took a broad interpretation of  Section 14  and held
that it would bar proceedings or actions against
sureties. While doing so, it did not refer to any of the
above judgments but instead held that proceedings
against guarantors would affect the CIRP and may
thus be barred by moratorium.  The Committee felt
that such a broad interpretation of the moratorium
may curtail significant rights of the creditor which are
intrinsic to a contract of guarantee.”

5.9 A contract of guarantee is between the creditor,
the principal debtor and the surety, where under the
creditor has a remedy in relation to his debt against
both the principal debtor and the surety [ National
Project Construction Corporation Limited v. Sandhu
and Co. , AIR 1990 P&amp;H 300]. The surety here may
be a corporate or a natural person and the liability of
such person goes as far the liability of the principal
debtor.   As per  section 128  of the Indian Contract
Act, 1872, the liability of the surety is co-extensive
with that of the principal debtor and the creditor may
go against either the principal debtor, or the surety,
or both, in no particular sequence [ Chokalinga
Chettiar v. Dandayunthapani Chattiar , AIR 1928
Mad 1262].   Though this may be limited by the terms
of the contract of guarantee, the general principle of
such contracts is that the liability of the principal
debtor and the surety is co-extensive and is joint
                                                            36 
and several [ Bank of Bihar v. Damodar Prasad , AIR
1969 SC 297]. The Committee noted that this
characteristic of such contracts i.e. of having remedy
against both the surety and the corporate debtor,
without the obligation to exhaust the remedy against
one of the parties before proceeding against the
other, is of utmost important for the creditor and is
the hallmark of a guarantee contract, and the
availability of such remedy is in most cases the
basis on which the loan may have been extended. 
 
 5.10 The Committee further noted that a literal
interpretation of  Section 14  is prudent, and a
broader interpretation may not be necessary in the
above context. The assets of the surety are
separate from those of the corporate debtor, and
proceedings against the corporate debtor may not
be seriously impacted by the actions against assets
of third parties like sureties. Additionally,
enforcement of guarantee may not have a
significant impact on the debt of the corporate
debtor as the right of the creditor against the
principal debtor is merely shifted to the surety, to the
extent of payment by the surety. Thus, contractual
principles of guarantee require being respected
even during a moratorium and an alternate
interpretation may not have been the intention of the
Code, as is clear from a plain reading of  Section 14 .
 
 5.11 Further, since many guarantees for loans of
corporates are given by its promoters in the form of
personal guarantees, if there is a stay on actions
against their assets during a CIRP, such promoters
(who are also corporate applicants) may file
frivolous applications to merely take advantage of
the stay and guard their assets. In the judgments
analysed in this relation, many have been filed by
the corporate applicant under  Section 10  of the
Code and this may corroborate the above
apprehension of abuse of the moratorium provision.
                                                             37 
          The Committee concluded that  Section 14  does not
         intend to bar actions against assets of guarantors to
         the debts of the corporate debtor and recommended
         that an explanation to clarify this may be inserted in
          Section 14  of the Code. The scope of the
         moratorium may be restricted to the assets of the
         corporate debtor only.”


  29.   The Report of the said Committee makes it clear that the object of

the amendment was to clarify and set at rest what the Committee

thought was an overbroad interpretation of  Section 14 . That such

clarificatory amendment is retrospective in nature, would be clear from

the following judgments:
 
 
   ( i)   CIT v. Shelly Products , (2003) 5 SCC 461: 
 
           “38. It was submitted that after 1-4-1989, in case the
         assessment is annulled the assessee is entitled to
         refund only of the amount, if any, of the tax paid in
         excess of the tax chargeable on the total income
         returned by the assessee. But before the
         amendment came into effect the position in law was
         quite different and that is why the legislature thought
         it proper to amend the section and insert the
         proviso. On the other hand learned counsel for the
         Revenue submitted that the proviso is merely
         declaratory and does not change the legal position
         as it existed before the amendment. It was
         submitted that this Court in  CIT v. Chittor Electric
         Supply Corpn  [(1995) 2 SCC 430 : (1995) 212 ITR
         404] has held that proviso (a) to Section 240 is
         declaratory and, therefore, proviso (b) should also
         be held to be declaratory. In our view that is not the
         correct position in law. Where the proviso consists of
                                                                      38 
          two parts, one part may be declaratory but the other
          part may not be so. Therefore, merely because one
          part of the proviso has been held to be declaratory it
          does not follow that the second part of the proviso is
          also declaratory. However, the view that we have
          taken supports the stand of the Revenue that
          proviso (b) to Section 240 is also declaratory. We
          have held that even under the unamended  Section
          240  of the Act, the assessee was only entitled to the
          refund of tax paid in excess of the tax chargeable on
          the total income returned by the assessee. We have
          held so without taking the aid of the amended
          provision. It, therefore, follows that proviso (b) to
          Section 240 is also declaratory. It seeks to clarify the
          law so as to remove doubts leading to the courts
          giving conflicting decisions, and in several cases
          directing the Revenue to refund the entire amount of
          income tax paid by the assessee where the
          Revenue was not in a position to frame a fresh
          assessment. Being clarificatory in nature it must be
          held to be retrospective, in the facts and
          circumstances of the case. It is well settled that the
          legislature may pass a declaratory Act to set aside
          what the legislature deems to have been a judicial
          error in the interpretation of statute. It only seeks to
          clear the meaning of a provision of the principal Act
          and make explicit that which was already implicit.” 

   ( ii)   CIT v. Vatika Township , (2015) 1 SCC 1: 
 
           “32. Let us sharpen the discussion a little more. We
          may note that under certain circumstances, a
          particular amendment can be treated as clarificatory
          or declaratory in nature. Such statutory provisions
          are labelled as “declaratory statutes”. The
          circumstances under which provisions can be
          termed as “declaratory statutes” are explained by
          Justice G.P. Singh [Principles of Statutory


                                                                      39 
Interpretation, (13th Edn., Lexis Nexis Butterworths
Wadhwa, Nagpur, 2012)] in the following manner:
 

      “Declaratory statutes

    The      presumption      against     retrospective
    operation is not applicable to declaratory
    statutes. As stated in CRAIES [W.F. Craies,
    Craies on Statute Law (7th Edn., Sweet and
    Maxwell Ltd., 1971)] and approved by the
    Supreme Court [in  Central Bank of India v.
    Workmen , AIR 1960 SC 12, para 29]: ‘For
    modern purposes a declaratory Act may be
    defined as an Act to remove doubts existing as
    to the common law, or the meaning or effect of
    any statute. Such Acts are usually held to be
    retrospective. The usual reason for passing a
    declaratory Act is to set aside what Parliament
    deems to have been a judicial error, whether in
    the statement of the common law or in the
    interpretation of statutes. Usually, if not
    invariably, such an Act contains a Preamble,
    and also the word “declared” as well as the
    word “enacted”.’ But the use of the words ‘it is
    declared’ is not conclusive that the Act is
    declaratory for these words may, at times, be
    used to introduced new rules of law and the Act
    in the latter case will only be amending the law
    and will not necessarily be retrospective. In
    determining, therefore, the nature of the Act,
    regard must be had to the substance rather
    than to the form. If a new Act is ‘to explain’ an
    earlier Act, it would be without object unless
    construed retrospective. An explanatory Act is
    generally passed to supply an obvious omission
    or to clear up doubts as to the meaning of the
    previous Act. It is well settled that if a statute is
    curative or merely declaratory of the previous
    law retrospective operation is generally
                                                             40 
               intended. The language ‘shall be deemed
               always to have meant’ is declaratory, and is in
               plain terms retrospective. In the absence of
               clear words indicating that the amending Act is
               declaratory, it would not be so construed when
               the pre-amended provision was clear and
               unambiguous. An amending Act may be purely
               clarificatory to clear a meaning of a provision of
               the principal Act which was already implicit. A
               clarificatory amendment of this nature will have
               retrospective effect and, therefore, if the
               principal Act was existing law which the
               Constitution came into force, the amending Act
               also will be part of the existing law.”

           The above summing up is factually based on the
           judgments of this Court as well as English
           decisions.” 


  30.      For all these reasons, we are of the view that the impugned

judgment of the Tribunal has to be set aside. The appeals are

accordingly allowed.
 
 


                                          ……………………………..J.
                                        (R.F. Nariman)



                                        ……………………………..J.
                                        (Indu Malhotra)
      New Delhi;
        August 14, 2018.
 
                                                                      41 
 